











				JURASSIC PARK

				  screenplay

				      by

				  David Koepp

			     based upon the novel

				      by

				Michael Crichton

				and on adaption

				      by

		    Michael Crichton and Malia Scotch Marmo













								December 11, 1992





1	EXT	JUNGLE	NIGHT

	An eyeball, big, yellowish, distinctly inhuman, stares raptly 
	between wooden slats, part of a large crate.  The eye darts from side 
	to side, alert as hell.

	A legend tries to place us - -

	ISLA NUBLAR
	120 MILES WEST OF COSTA RICA

	- - but to us it's still the middle of nowhere.

	It's quiet for a second.  A ROAR rises up from the jungle, 
	deafening.  The trees shake as something very, very large plows ahead 
	through them, right at us.  Every head gathered in this little clearing 
	snaps, turning in the direction of the sound as it bursts through the 
	trees.

	It's a bulldozer.  It drops its scoop and pushes forward into 
	the back end of the crate, shoving it across the jungle floor towards 
	an impressive fenced structure that towers over an enclosed section of 
	thick jungle.  There's a guard tower at one end of this holding open 
	that makes it look like San Quentin.

	The bulldozer pushes forward into the back end, the crate THUDS 
	TO THE FLOOR.  A door slides open in the pen, making a space as big as 
	the end of the crate.

	Nobody moves for a second,  A grim-faced guy who seems to be in 
	charge (Robert Muldoon, although we don't know it yet).

				MULDOON
		Alright now, pushers move in.  Loading team move it.

	The movement as agitated whatever is inside the crate, and the 
	whole thing shivers as GROWLS and SNAPS come from inside.
	Everyone moves back.

				MULDOON (cont'd)
		Alright, steady.  Get back in there now, push.  Get back 
		in there,  Don't let her know you're afraid!

	The men go back to the crate and begin to push it into the slot.  
	The crate THUDS UP AGAINST THE OPENING.  A green light on the side of 
	the pen lights up, showing contact has been made.

	FROM INSIDE THE CRATE,
	we get glimpses of what's on the other side of those wooden 
	slates - - jungle foliage, MEN with rifles, searching searchlights.  
	The view is herky-jerky as the crate put into position.

				MULDOON
		Well locked� Loading team, step away.  Joffrey, raise
		the gate.

	A WORKER climbs to the top of the crate.  The search lights are 
	trained on the door.

	The RIFFLEMEN throw the bolts on their rifles and CRACK their 
	stun guns, sending arcs of current CRACKING through the air.

	The WORKER gets ready to grab the gate when all at once - -

	A ROAR from the inside the crate, and the panel flies out of his 
	hands and SMACKS into him, knocking him clear off the crate.

	Now everything happens at once.  The WORKER THUDS to the jungle 
	floor, the crate jerks away from the mouth of the holding pen flash, an 
	alarm BUZZER sounds - -

	- - and a claw SLASHES out from inside the crate.  It sinks into 
	the ankle of the WORKER. dragging him toward the dark mouth between the 
	crate and the pen.  The WORKER SCREAMS and paws the dirt, leaving long 
	claw marks as he is rapidly dragged toward the crate.

	Muldoon SHOUTS orders:

				MULDOON
	Tasers get in there, Goddamn it!

	They FIRE their guns - the wood of the crate SPLINTERS.

	Muldoon runs in and grabs the WORKER, trying to pull him free.

	The wild arcs of currents from the stun gun flash and CRACK all 
	around, but in a second - -

	- - the WORKER is gone.

	CUT TO:

2 	EXT	MOUNTAINSIDE	DAY

	MANO DE DIOS AMBER MINE
	DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

	DONALD GENNARO, forty, in a city man's idea of hiking clothes 
	and a hundred dollar haircut, approaches on a raft being pulled across 
	a river by TWO MEN.

	On the hillside, JUAN ROSTAGNO, thirty-ish, Costa Rican, a 
	smart-looking guy in workers clothes, is waiting for him.

				ROSTAGNO
		Tengo mil pesos que dicen que se cae
			(I have a thousand pesos that say he falls)
			(or)
		Apuesto mil pesos que se cae.
			(I bet a thousand pesos he falls)

	Gennaro finally lands, and Rostagno helps him off the raft.

				GENNARO
		Hola, Juanito

				ROSTAGNO
		Hola, bienvenido

	Rostagno leads Gennaro towards the mine.  Dozen of shirtless 
	WORKERS claw and SCRAPE at a rocky mountainside that is the site of an 
	extensive mining operation.  The work is all done by hand, pick and 
	shovel instead of dynamite and bulldozer.

				GENNARO
		What's this I hear at the airport� Hammond's not even
		here?

				ROSTAGNO
		He sends his apologies.

				GENNARO
		You're telling me that we're facing a $20 million 
		lawsuit from the family of that injured worker and Hammond couldn't 
		even be bothered to see me?

				ROSTAGNO
		He had to leave early to be with his daughter.  She's
		getting a divorce.

				GENNARO
		I understand that.
			(or)
		I'm sorry to hear that. We'd be well advised to deal
		with this situation now.  The insurance company - -

	Gennaro almost falls, Rostagno helps him.

				GENNARO (cont'd)
		- -the underwriters of the park feel the accident raises 
		some very serious questions about the safety of the park, and they're 
		making the investors very anxious.  I had to promise I would conduct a 
		thorough on-site inspection.

				ROSTAGNO
		Hammond hates inspections.  They slow everything down.

				GENNARO
		Juanito, if they pull the funding, that will really 
		slow things down.
			(or)
		If they pull the funding that's going to slow things
		down around here.

	A WORKER hurries up to them and busts into the conversation, 
	breathless.

				WORKER
			(to Rostagno)
		Jefe, encontramos otro mosquito, en el mismo sitio.
			(Chief, we found another mosquito in the same place)

				ROSTAGNO
		Seguro? Muestrame!
			(Are you sure? Show me.)

	The WORKER and ROSTAGNO scramble back deeper into the mine.  
	Rostagno calls back over his shoulder to Gennaro.

				ROSTAGNO (cont'd)
		It seems like it's going to be a good day after all.
		They found another one! C'mon.

	Gennaro struggles to keep up.


3 	EXT	CAVE	DAY


	ROSTAGNO and GENNARO move into the dark, dripping cave, where at 
	least a dozen other WORKERS are gathered in a tight circle, staring at 
	something intently.

	Rostagno fights his way to the center of the group.  One of the 
	WORKERS hands him something and Rostagno examines it carefully.

	It's a chuck of amber, a shiny yellow rock about the size of a 
	half dollar.
	GENNARO
	If two experts sign off on the island, the insurance 
	guys'll back off.  I already got Ian Malcolm, but they think he's too 
	trendy.  They want Alan Grant.

				ROSTAGNO
		Grant?  You'll never get him out of Montana.

				GENNARO
		Why not?

				ROSTAGNO
		Because he's like me.  He's a digger.

	Rostagno turns and holds the amber up to the sunlight streaming 
	through the mouth of the cave.

	With the light pouring through it, the amber is translucent, and 
	we can see something inside this strange stone - -

	- - a huge mosquito, long dead, entombed there.

				ROSTAGNO
			(smiles)
		Hay que lindo eres vas hacer a much gente feliz.
			(Oh you're so beautiful.  You will make a lot of 
			people happy)


	CUT TO:


5 	EXT	THE DIG	DAY

	An artist's camel hair brush carefully sweeps away sand and rock 
	to slowly reveal the dark curve of a fossil - it's a claw.  A dentist's 
	pick gently lifts it from the place its has laid for millions of years.  
	Pull up to reveal a group of diggers working on a large skeleton.  All 
	we see are the tops of their hats.  The paleontologist working on the 
	claw lays it in his hand.

				GRANT
			(thoughtfully)
		Four complete skeletons. . . .
		such a small area. . . 
		the same time horizon - -

				ELLIE
		They died together?

				GRANT
		The taphonomy sure looks that way.

				ELLIE
		If they died together, they lived together.  
		Suggests some kind of social order.

	DR ALAN GRANT, mid-thirties, a ragged-looking guy with intense 
	concentration you wouldn't want to get in the way of, carefully 
	examines a claw.

	DR ELLIE SATTLER, working with him, leans in close and studies 
	it too.  She paints the exposed bone with rubber cement.  Ellie in her 
	late twenties, athletic-looking.  There's an impatience about Ellie, as 
	if nothing in life happens quite fast enough for her.

	Her face is almost pressed up against his, she's sitting so 
	close.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		They hunted as a team.  The dismembered tenontosaurus
		bone over there - that's lunch.  But what killed our
		raptors in a lakebed, in a bunch like this?  We better
		come up with something that makes sense.

				ELLIE
		A drought.  The lake was shrinking - -

				GRANT
			(excited)
		That's good.  That's right!  They died around a dried-up
		puddle!  Without fighting each other.  This is looking
		good.

	From the bottom of the hill a voice SHOUTS to them:

				VOLUNTERR (o.s.)
		Dr Grant!  Dr Sattler!  We're ready to try again!

	Grant SIGNS and sits up, stretching out his back.

				GRANT
		I hate computers.

	He shoves the claw absent-mindedly into his pocket and he and 
	Ellie walk toward the source of the voice.  As they walk, we get our 
	first look at the badlands.  Exposed outcroppings of crumbling 
	limestone stretch for miles in every direction, not a tree or a bush in 
	sight.

	In the dig itself, the ground is checkered with excavations 
	everywhere.  There's a base camp with five or six teepees, a flapping 
	mess tent, a few cards, a flatbed truck with wrapped fossils loaded on 
	it, and a mobile home.  There are a dozen VOLUNTEERS of all ages at 
	work in various places around the dig.  The Volunteers are from all 
	walks of life, dinosaur buffs.  Three or four of them have CHILDREN 
	with them, and the kids run around, like in a giant sandbox.

	Grant , Ellie and a Volunteer walk down the hill. Grant spots a 
	KID kicking dirt onto one of the digs.  He notices and frowns.

				GRANT
		What's that kid doing?
			(to the kid)
		What are you doing there!? Excuse me!  Can you just back
		off?  This is very fragile!  Are you out of your mind? 
		Get off that and go find your parents!
			(to Ellie)
		Did you see what he just did?

	The kid stomps away, pissed off.

				KID
		Asshole.

				GRANT
			(to Ellie)
		Why do they have to bring their kids?!

				ELLIE
		You could hire your help.  But there's four summers of
		work here, with the money for one.  And you say it's a 
		learning experience, sort of a vacation, and you get 
		volunteers with kids.

	He and Ellie arrive to where several VOLUNTEERS are clustered 
	around a computer terminal that's set up on a table in a small tent, 
	its flaps lashed open.

				GRANT
			(to the Volunteer)
		Ready to give it a shot, Jerry?

	A LITTLE GIRL moves a little too close to the machine.

				ELLIE
		Want to watch the computer?

	Ellie quietly moves her out of Grant's way, to a place she can 
	see.

				VOLUNTEER
		Thumper ready?

				MAN
		Ready.

				VOLUNTEER
		Fire.

	The VOLUNTEER throws a switch on a machine that looks a bit like 
	a floor buffer.  The whole thing hops up into the air as it drives a 
	soft lead pellet into the earth with a tremendous force.  There is a 
	dull THUD, the earth seems to vibrate, and all eyes turn to the 
	computer screen - -

				ELLIE
		How long does this usually take?

				VOLUNTEER
		It should be immediate return.  You shoot the radar into
		the ground, the bone bounces back....

		The screen suddenly comes alive, yellow contour lines tracing 
		across it in three waves, detailing a dinosaur skeleton.

				VOLUNTEER
		This new program's incredible!  A few more years of 
		development and you don't have to dig any more!

	Grant looks at him, and his expression is positively wounded.

				GRANT
		Well, where's the fun in that?

				VOLUNTEER
		It looks a little distorted, but I don't think that's 
		the computer.

				ELLIE
			(shakes her head)
		Postmortem contraction of the posterior neck ligaments.
			(to Grant)
		Velociraptor?

				GRANT
		Yes.  Good shape, too.  Five, six feet high.  I'm
		guessing nine feet long.  Look at the - -

	He points to part of the skeleton, but when his finger touches 
	the screen the computer BEEPS at him and the image changes.  He pulls 
	his hand back, as if it shocked him.

				VOLUNTEER
		What's you do?

				ELLIE
		He touched it.  Dr. Grant is not machine compatible.

				GRANT
		They've got it in for me.

	The Volunteer LAUGHS and touches a different part of the screen, 
	which brings the original image back.  Grant continues, but doesn't get 
	as close.

				GRANT
		Look at the half-moon shaped bone in the wrist.  No 
		wonder these guys learned to fly.

	The group laughs.  Grant is surprised.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Now, seriously.  Show of the hands.  How many of you
		have read my book?

	Everyone stops laughing and looks away.  Ellie raises her hand 
	supportively.  So does the Volunteer, Grant sighs.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Great.  Well maybe dinosaurs have more in common with 
		present-day birds than reptiles.  Look at the public 
		bone - - it's turned backwards, just like a bird.  The 
		vertebrae - - full of hollows and air sacs, just like a 
		bird.  Even the word raptor means "bird of prey".

	The kid steps forward and looks at the computer skeleton 
	critically.

				KID
		That doesn't look very scary.  More like a six-foot 
		turkey.

	Everyone sort of draws in their breath and steps aside, 
	revealing the KID, standing alone.  Grant turns to the Kid, lowers his 
	sunglasses, and stares at him like he just came from another planet.

	Grant strolls over to the KID , puts his arms around his 
	shoulders in a friendly way.

				GRANT
		Try to imagine yourself in the Jurassic Period.
			(or)
		Try to imagine yourself in the Cretaceous Period.

	Ellie rolls her eyes.

				ELLIE
			(under her breath)
		Here we go.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		You'd get your first look at the six-foot turkey as you
		move into a clearing.  But raptor, he knew you were 
		there a long time ago.  He moves like a bird; lightly, 
		bobbing his head, And you keep still, because you think 
		maybe his visual acuity's based on movement, like a T-
		rex, and he'll lose you if you don't move.  But no.  Not 
		VELOCIRAPTOR.  You stare at him, and he just stares 
		back.  That's when the attack comes - - not from the 
		front, no, from the side, from the other two raptors you 
		didn't even know were there.

	Grant walks around the Kid.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Velociraptor's a pack hunter, you see, he uses 
		coordinated attack patterns, and  he's out in force 
		today.  And he slashes at you with this - - 

	He takes the claw from his pocket and holds it at the front of 
	the raptor's three-toed foot.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		- - a six-inch retractable claw, like a razor, on the
		middle toe.  They don't bother to bite the jugular, like 
		a lion, they just slash here, here - -

	He points to the Kid's chest and thigh.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		- - or maybe across the belly, spilling your intestines. 
		Point is, you're alive when they start to eat you. 
		Whole thing took about four seconds.

	The Kid is on the verge if tears.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		So, you know, try to show a little respect.

	And with that he walks back across the camp, returning to his 
	skeleton.  Ellie hurries to catch up with him.

				ELLIE
		You know, if you really wanted to scare the kid you 
		could've just pulled a gun on him.

				GRANT
		Yeah, I know, you know...kids.  You want to have one of 
		those?

				ELLIE
		Well, not one of those, well yeah, a possibly one at
		some point could be a good thing.  What's so wrong with 
		kids?

				GRANT
		Oh, Ellie, look.  They're noisy, they're messy, they're 
		sticky, they're expensive.

				ELLIE
		Cheap, cheap, cheap.

				GRANT
		They smell.

				ELLIE
		Oh my god, they do not!  They don't smell.

				GRANT
		They do smell.  Some of them smell.. babies smell.

				ELLIE
		Alright, the one on the airplane had an accident, but
		usually babies don't smell.

				GRANT
		They know very little about the Jurassic Period they
		know less about the Cretaceous.

				ELLIE
		The what?

				GRANT
		The Cretaceous.

				ELLIE
		Anything else, you old fossil?

				GRANT
		Yeah, plenty.  Some of them can't walk!

				ELLIE
		It frustrates me so much that I love you, that I need to
		strangle you right now!

	Ellie playfully takes Grant's hat off and gives him a tight hug.  
	They kiss.

	A strange wind seems to be whipping up.  Grant and Ellie look 
	around, confused.  The wind is getting stronger, blowing dirt and sand 
	everywhere, filling in everything they've dug out, blowing the 
	protective canvasses off.  Now there's a more familiar ROAR, and they 
	look up and see it - -

	- - a huge helicopter, descending on the camp.

				ELLIE
			(to the volunteers)
		Get some canvasses and cover anything that's exposed!

	Grant's already on it, trying to desperately to protect the 
	skeleton he's excavating.  He looks up at the helicopter and SHOUTS, 
	shaking his fist.


	CUT TO:


9 	EXT	BASE CAMP	DAY

	Down at the base camp, the helicopter has landed.  The PILOT is 
	already out, waiting as GRANT comes down from the mountaintop like 
	Moses steaming.  Grant gestures wildly at him to turn the chopper off.

	The pilot points timidly to a mobile home across the camp.  
	Grant runs to the trailer.


10 	EXT	TRAILER	DAY

	The door to the trailer SLAPS open, and GRANT storms in.

				GRANT
		What the hell do you think you're doing in here?

	The trailer serves as the dig's office.  There are several long 
	wooden tables set up, every inch covered with bone specimens that are 
	neatly laid out, tagged, and labeled.

	Farther along are ceramic dishes and crocks, soaking other bones 
	in acid and vinegar.

	There's old dusty furniture at one end of the trailer, and a 
	refrigerator.  A man roots around in the refrigerator, his back to us.  
	GRUMBLING about the contents which are mostly beer.

	His hand falls across a bottle of expensive champagne in the 
	back.

				MAN
		Ah hah!

	He pulls it out - the cork POPS.

	The Man turns around.  JOHN HAMMOND, seventy-ish, is sprightly 
	as hell, with bright, shining eyes that say "Follow me!"
	
	Grant stares incredulously at the Man, holding his champagne 
	bottle without an invitation.

				GRANT
		Hey, we were saving that!

				HAMMOND
		For today, I guarantee it.

				GRANT
		And who in God's name do you think you are....?

				HAMMOND
		John Hammond.  And I am delighted to finally meet you 
		in person Dr Grant.

	Grant is struck silent.  He shakes his hand, staring dumbly.

				GRANT
		Mr. - - Hammond?

	Hammond looks around the trailer approvingly, at the enormous 
	amount of work the bones represent.

				HAMMOND
		I can see my fifty thousand a year as been well spent.

	The door SLAPS open again and ELLIE comes in, just as pissed off 
	as Grant was.

				ELLIE
		Okay, who's the jerk?

				GRANT
		Uh, this is our paleobotanist, Dr Ellie.....

				ELLIE
		Sattler.

				Grant
		Dr Sattler.  Ellie, this is Mr. HAMMOND.
			(in case she didn't catch it)
		John Hammond.

				ELLIE
		Did I say jerk?

				HAMMOND
		I'm sorry for the dramatic entrance, but I'm in a hurry.
		Will you have a wee bit of a drink now and then?

	Hammond begins to walk into the kitchen, making himself at home.  
	Ellie follows him tries to help.  Grant settles behind the table.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Come along then, don't let it get warm!
			(expansively)
		Come on in, both of you.  Sit down.

	As Hammond moves, they notice he walks with a slight limp and 
	uses a cane - - for balance or style, it's hard to say witch.

				ELLIE
		I have samples all over the kitchen.  
			(she takes some stones out of one of the glasses)

				HAMMOND
		Come along.  I know my way around a kitchen.  Come
		along.

	Ellie goes around towards Grant.  She grabs a bottle of water.  
	They look at each other, really aback by this guy's bravado, and site 
	down.  Hammond dries the glasses.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Well now, I'll get right to the point.  I like you.  
		Both of you.  I can tell instantly with people; it's a gift.
			(new subject)
		I own an island.  Off the coast of Costa Rica.  I leased 
		it from the government and spent the last five years setting up a kind 
		of biological preserve down there.  Really spectacular.  Spared no 
		expense.  It makes the one I had in Kenya look like a petting zoo.  No 
		doubt that sooner or later our attractions will send (drive the) kids 
		right out of their minds.

				GRANT
		And what are those?

				ELLIE
		Small versions of adults, honey.

	He gives her a dirty look.

				HAMMOND
		Not just kids - - for everyone.  We're going to open
		next year.  Unless the lawyers kill me first.  I don't
		care for lawyers.  You?

				GRANT
		I, uh, don't really know any.  We - -

				HAMMOND
		Well, I'm afraid I do.  There's one, a particular pebble
		in my shoe.  He represents my investors.  He says they 
		insist on outside opinions.

				GRANT
		What kind of opinions?

				HAMMOND
		Not to put a fine point on it, your kind.  Let's face 
		it, in your particular field, you're the top minds.  If 
		I could just get you two to sign off on the park - - you 
		know, give a wee testimonial - - I could get back on 
		schedule - -
			(he Americanizes him pronunciation)
		- -schedule.

				ELLIE
		Why would they care what we think?

				GRANT
		What kind of park is it?

				HAMMOND
			(smiles)
		Well, it's - - right up your alley.
			(hands Grant a drink)
		Look, why don't you both (the pair of you) come on down
		for the weekend.  Love to have the opinion of a 
		paleobotoanist as well.
			(hands Ellie a drink)
		I've got a jet standing by at Choteau.
			(he jumps up and sites on the counter)

				GRANT
		No, I'm sorry, that  wouldn't be possible.  We've just
		discovered a new skeleton, and - -

				HAMMOND
			(pours himself a drink)
		I could compensate you by fully funding your dig

				GRANT
		- - this would be an awfully unusual time - -

				HAMMOND
		For a further three years.

	Grant OOFS as Ellie elbows him hard in the ribs.

				ELLIE
		Where's the plane?


	CUT TO:

11 	EXT	CAFE	DAY

	DENNIS NEDRY is in his late thirties, a big guy with a constant 
	smile that could either be laughing with you or at you, you can never 
	tell.  He sits at a table in front of a Central American cafe, eating 
	breakfast

	Another Legend:
	SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA

	Nedry looks up and sees a man get out of a taxi - - LEWIS 
	(Louis) DODGSON, fiftyish, wearing a large straw hat and looking almost 
	too much like an American tourist.  Dodgson clutches as attach� case 
	close to him and scans the cafe furtively.
	Nedry laughs, shakes his head, and waves to him.

				NEDRY
		Dodgson!

	Dodgson hurries over to the table.

				DODGSON
			(as he sites)
		You shouldn't use my name.

				NEDRY
		Dodgson, Dodgson.
			(loud)
		We got Dodgson here!  See, nobody cares.  Nice hat.
		What are you trying to look like, a secret agent?

	Dodgson ignores that, sets his attach� case down next to the 
	table, and slides it towards Nedry,

				DODGSON
		Seven fifty.

	Nedry smiles and pulls the attach� closer to him.

				DODGSON (cont'd)
		On delivery, fifty thousand more for ever viable embryo.
		That's one point five million.  If you get all fifteen 
		species off the island.

				NEDRY
		Oh, I'll get 'em all.

				DODGSON
		Remember - - viable embryos.  They're no use to us if
		they don't survive.

				NEDRY
		How am I supposed to transport them?

	Dodgson pulls an ordinary can of shaving cream from a shoulder 
	bag he carries and sets it on the table.

				DODGSON
		The bottom screws open; it's cooled and 
		compartmentalized inside.  They can even check it if 
		they want.  Press the top.

	Nedry presses the top of the can and real shaving cream comes 
	out.  He grins, impressed.  While Dodgson talks, Nedry looks around for 
	somewhere to wipe the shaving cream and ends up dumping it on top of 
	someone's Jell-O on a dessert tray next to him.

				DODGSON (cont'd)
		There's enough coolant gas for thirty-six hours.

	Nedry looks at the can.

				NEDRY
		What?  No menthol?

				DODGSON
		Mr Nedry, Mr Nedry.  The embryos have to be back here 
		in San Jose by then.

				NEDRY
		That's up to your guy on the boat.  Seven o'clock 
		tomorrow night, at the east dock. Make sure he got it 
		right.

				DODGSON
		I was wondering, how are you planning to beat the 
		security?

				NEDRY
		I got an eighteen minute window.  Eighteen minutes, and 
		your company catches up on ten years of research.

	A WAITER arrives and puts the check down on the table, between 
	them.  Nedry looks down at it pointedly, then up at Dodgson.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Don't get cheep on me Dodgson.

	Dodgson rolls his eyes and picks up the check.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		That was Hammond's mistake.



13 	EXT	OPEN SEA	DAY

	A helicopter, "IN-GEN CONSTRUCTION" emblazoned on the side, 
	skims low over the shimmering Pacific.


14 	EXT	HELICOPTER	DAY

	GRANT, ELLIE, GENNARO and MALCOLM are huddled in the back of the 
	chopper; HAMMOND is in the front with the PILOT.

	There are two other passengers was well -- DONALD GENNARO, the 
	lawyer from the amber mine, now dressed in safari clothes, everything 
	straight from Banana Republic.  The other Dr. IAN MALCOLM, fortyish, 
	dressed all in black, with a snakeskin boots and sunglasses.  Malcolm, 
	who finds it hard to take his eyes off Ellie, leans over and SHOUTS 
	over the engine whine.

				MALCOLM
		So you two dig up dinosaurs?

				GRANT
		Try to!

	Malcolm laughs, finding this very amusing, which confuses Grant.  
	Hammond turns around annoyed.

				HAMMOND
		You'll have to get use to Dr. Malcolm!  He suffers from
		a deplorable excess of personality, especially for a 
		mathematician!

				MALCOLM
		Chaotician, actually!  Chaotician!

	Hammond SNORTS, not even bothering to cover his contempt for 
	Malcolm.

				MALCOLM
		John doesn't subscribe to Chaos, particularly what it 
		has to say about his little science project!

				HAMMOND
		Codswollop!  Ian, you've never come close to explaining
		these concerns of yours about this island!

				MALCOLM
		I certainly have!  Very clearly!  Because of the 
		behavior of the system in phase space!

	Hammond just waves him off.

				HAMMOND
		A load, if I may say so. of fashionable number crunching, that�s all it is!

				MALCOLM
			(poking at Hammond's knee)
		John, John.

				HAMMOND
			(pushing him away)
		Don't do that!

				MALCOLM
		Dr. Grant, Dr. Sattler -- you've heard of Chaos Theory?

				ELLIE
			(shaking  her head)
		No.

				MALCOLM
		No?  Non-linear equations?  Strange attractions?
			(again, she shrugs)
		Dr. Sattler, I refuse to believe that you are not 
		familiar with the concept of attraction!

	Grant just rolls his eyes as Malcolm gives her an oily grin, but 
	Ellie smiles, enjoying Grant's jealousy.  Hammond turns to Gennaro and 
	gives him a dirty look.

				HAMMOND
		I bring scientists -- you bring a rock star.

	Hammond looks out the windshield, and CLAPS his hands excitedly.

				HAMMOND
		There it is!

	Up ahead, the others see it.

	ISLA NUBLAR.  It's a smallish island, completely ringed by thick 
	clouds that give it a lush, mysterious feel.  The PILOT pulls up over a 
	spot in the clouds and starts to descend, fast.

			HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Bad wind shears!  We have to drop pretty fast!  Hold on,
		this can be a little thrilling!

	The helicopter drops like a stone.  Outside the windows, they 
	can see cliff walls racing by, uncomfortably close.  They bounce like 
	hell, hitting wind up and down drafts.

	Only Hammond still feels chatty.

			HAMMOND (cont'd)
		We're planning an airstrip!  On pilings, extending out
		into the ocean twelve thousand feet!  	Like La Guardia, 
		only a lot safer!  What do you think?

	They don't answer, just hold on.  As they near the ground, a 
	luminous white cloud cross appears below them, a landing pad shining 
	through the Plexiglas bubble in the floor of the chopper.

	The cross grows rapidly larger as the chopper plummets, but a 
	sudden updraft catches them and they bounce skyward for a moment then 
	drop again, even faster if possible, before landing with a hard BUMP.


14A 	EXT	HELICOPTER LANDING PAD	DAY

	The chopper plummets and finally lands.  One of the workers 
	opens the door and the group gets out.  Hammond looks out, proudly.


15 	EXT	HILLTOP	DAY

	Two large, open-top jeeps ROAR down the hilltop away from the 
	landing cross as the helicopter engines WHINE back to life and the 
	rotors start to spin again.

	ELLIE, GRANT, and MALCOLM hold on tight in the front jeep, 
	HAMMOND and GENNARO are in the rear jeep.  Both cars have DRIVERS.

	They pass through an enormous gate in a thirty foot high fence, 
	which is closed behind them by two PARK ATTENDANTS.

	There are large electrical insulators on the fences, warning 
	lights that strobe importantly and clear signs -- "ELECTRIFIED FENCE!  
	10,000 VOLTS!"

	IN THE REAR JEEP,

	Gennaro regards the fences critically.

				GENNARO
		The full fifty mile of perimeter fence are in place?

				HAMMOND
		And the concrete moats, and the motion sensor tracking 
		systems.  Donald, dear boy, do try to relax and enjoy 
		yourself.

				GENNARO
		Let's get something straight, John.  This is not a 
		weekend excursion, this is a serious investigation of 
		the stability of the island.  Your investors, whom I 
		represent, are deeply concerned.  Forty-eight hours from 
		now, if they - -
			(gestures to Grant, Ellie, and Malcolm)
		- -aren't convinced.  I'm not convinced.  And I can shut
		you down John.

				HAMMOND
		Forty-eight hours from now, I'll be accepting your 
		apologies.  Now get out of the way.  So I can see them!

	He shoves Gennaro aside, to get a clear view of Grant, Ellie, 
	and Malcolm.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		I wouldn't miss this for the world.

	The jeeps wind their way along a mountain road.

	IN THE LEAD JEEP,

	Ellie stares off to the right, fascinated by the thick tropical 
	plant life around them.  She tilts her head, as if something's wrong 
	with this picture.

	She reaches out and grabs hold of a leafy branch as they drive 
	by, TEARING it from the tree.

	IN THE REAR JEPP, 

	Hammond watching Grant, signals to his Driver .

				HAMMOND
		Just stop here, stop here.  Slow, slow.

	He slows down, then stops.  So does the front jeep.

	IN THE FRONT JEEP,

	Ellie stares at the leaf, amazed, running her hand lightly over 
	it.

				ELLIE
		Alan - -

	But Grant's not paying attention.  He's staring too, out the 
	other side of the jeep.

	Grant notices that several of the tree trunks are leafless - 
	just as thick as the other trees, but gray and bare.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
			(still staring at the leaf)
		This shouldn't be here.

	Grant twists in his seat as the jeep stops and looks at one of 
	the gray tree trunks.  Riveted, he slowly stands up in his seat, as if 
	to get closer.  He moves to the top of the seat, practically on his 
	tiptoes.

	He raises his head, looking up the length of the trunk.  He 
	looks higher.

	And higher.

	And higher.

	That's no tree trunk.  That's a leg.  Grant's jaw drops, his 
	head falls all the way back, and he looks even higher, above the tree 
	line.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
			(still looking at the leaf)
		This species of vermiform was been extinct since the 
		cretaceous period.  This thing - -

	Grant, never tearing his eyes from the brachiosaur, reaches over 
	and grabs Ellie's head, turning it to face the animal.

	She sees it, and drops the leaf.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		Oh - - my - - God.

	Grant lets out a long, sharp, HAH - a combination laugh and 
	shout of joy.

	He gets out of the jeep, and Ellie follows.  Grant points to the 
	thing and manages to put together his first words since its appearance:

				GRANT
		THAT'S A DINOSAUR!

	- - a dinosaur.  Chewing the branches.  Technically, it's a 
	brachiosaur, of the sauropod family, but we've always called it 
	brontosaurus.  It CRUCHES the branch in its mouth, which is some 
	thirty-five feet up off the ground, at the end of its long, arching 
	neck.  It stares down at the people in the car with a pleasant, stupid 
	gaze.

	Ellie looks up at the sauropods in wonder.

	They've pretty light on their feet - a far cry from the 
	sluggish, lumbering brutes we would have expected.

	Hammond gets out of his jeep and comes back to join them.  He 
	looks like a proud parent showing off the kid.

	Ian Malcolm looks at Hammond, amazed, and with an expression 
	that is a mixture of admiration and rapprochement.

				MALCOLM
		You did it.  You crazy son of a bitch, you did it.

	Grant and Ellie continue walking, following the dinosaur.

				GRANT
		The movement!

				ELLIE
		The - - agility.  You're right!

	In their amazement, Grant and Ellie talk right over each other.

				GRANT
		Ellie, we can tear up the rule book on cold-bloodedness.  
		It doesn't apply, they're totally wrong!  This is a warm-blooded 
		creature.  They're totally wrong.

				ELLIE
		They were wrong.  Case closed.  This thing doesn't live
		in a swamp to support it's body weight for God's sake!

	Several of the top branches are suddenly RIPPED away.  Another 
	sauropod, reaching for a branch high above their heads, stands 
	effortlessly on its hind legs.

				GRANT
			(to Hammond)
		That thing's got a what, twenty-five, twenty-seven foot 
		neck?

				HAMMOND
		The brachiosaur?  Thirty.

		Grant and Ellie continue to walk.

				GRANT
		- - and you're going to sit there and try to tell me it 
		can push blood up a thirty-foot neck without a four-chambered heart and 
		get around like that?!  Like that!?
			(to Hammond)
		This is like a knockout punch for warm-bloodedness.

				HAMMOND
			(proudly)
		We clocked the T-rex at thirty-two miles an hour.

				ELLIE
		You've got a T-rex!?
			(to Grant)
		He's got a T-rex!  A T-rex!  He said he's- -

				GRANT
		Say again?

				HAMMOND
		Yes, we have a T-rex.

	Grant feels faint.  He sits down on the ground.

				ELLIE
		Honey, put your head between your knees, and breathe.

	Hammond walks in front of them and looks out.

				HAMMOND
		Dr. Grant, my dear Dr. Sattler.  Welcome to Jurassic
		Park.

	They turn and look at the view again.  It's beautiful vista, 
	reminiscent of an African plain.  A whole herd of dinosaurs crosses the 
	plain, maybe a hundred that we see in a quick glance alone.

				GRANT
		Ellie, they're absolutely - - they're moving in herds.  
		They do move in herds!

				ELLIE
		We were right!

				GRANT
			(to Hammond)
		How did you do it?!
			(or)
		How did you do this?!

				HAMMOND
		I'll show you.

	Finally, we notice Gennaro, who was sort of faded into the 
	background while the others reacted.  He's just staring, a look of 
	absolute rapture on his face.

	He speaks in a voice that is hushed and reverent.

				GENNARO
		We are going to make a fortune with this place.

16 	OMITTED


17 	EXT	MAIN COMPOUND	DAY


	The main of Jurassic Park is a large area with three main 
	structures connected by walkways and surrounded by two impressive 
	fences, the outer fence almost twenty feet high.

	Outside the fences, the jungle has been encouraged to grow 
	naturally.

	The largest building is the visitor's center, several stories 
	tall, its walls still skeletal, unfinished.  There's a huge glass 
	rotunda in the center.

	The second building looks like a private residence, a compound 
	unto itself, with smoked windows and its own perimeter fence.

	The third structure isn't really a building at all, but the 
	impressive cage we saw earlier, overgrown inside with thick jungle 
	foliage.  The jeeps pull up in front of the visitor's center.


A18 	EXT	VISITOR'S CENTER	DAY

	HAMMOND leads GRANT, ELLIE, GENNARO, and MALCOLM up the stairs, 
	talking as he goes,  Two ladies open the doors to the Visitor Center.


18 	INT	VISITOR'S CENTER	DAY

	The lobby of the still-unfinished visitor's center is a high-
	ceilinged place, and has to be house its central feature, a large 
	skeleton of a tyrannosaur that is attacking  bellowing sauropod.  
	WORKMEN in the basket of a Condor crane are still assembling skeletons.  
	A staircase climbs the far wall, to another wing.

				HAMMOND
			(continuing)
		- - the most advanced amusement park in the world, 
		combining all the latest technologies.  I'm not talking 
		rides, you know.  Everybody has rides.  We made a living 
		biological attractions so astonishing they'll capture 
		the imagination of the entire planet!

	Grant stares up at the dinosaur skeletons and just shakes his head.  
	Ellie catches his reaction.

				ELLIE
		So what are you thinking?

				GRANT
		We're out of a job.

	Ian Malcolm pops in between them

				MALCOLM
		Don't you mean "extinct"?

	Ellie and Malcolm move on ahead.

	CUT TO:

19 	INT	SHOW ROOM	DAY

				HAMMOND
		Why don't you all sit down.

	GRANT, ELLIE, and MALCOLM take their seats in the front row of 
	the fifty seat auditorium.  GENNARO sits behind them.  HAMMOND walks 
	over to the giant screen in front of them.

	Behind him, a huge image of himself beams down at him from the 
	giant television screen.

				HAMMOND (screen)
		Hello, John!

				HAMMOND (stage)
			(to the group)
		Say hello!
			(then, fumbling with his three by five cards)
		Oh, I've got lines.

	He scans them, looking for his place.  The screen Hammond 
	continues without him,

				HAMMOND (screen)
		Fine, I guess!  But how did I get here?!

				HAMMOND (stage)
		Uh - -
			(finding his place)
		"Here, let me show you.  First I'll need a drop of 
		blood.  Your blood!"

	The screen-Hammond extends his finger and the stage-Hammond 
	reaches out and mimes pocking it with a needle.

				HAMMOND (screen)
		Ouch, John!  That hurt!

				HAMMOND (stage)
		"Relax, John.  It's all part of the miracle of cloning!"

	While the two Hammonds rattle on, the screen image splits into 
	two Hammonds, then four then eight, and so on, like a shampoo 
	commercial.

	Grant, Ellie, and Malcolm huddle together excitedly in the 
	audience.

				GRANT
		Cloning from What?!  Loy extraction has never recreated 
		an intact DNA strand!

				MALCOLM
		Not without massive sequence gaps!

				ELLIE
		Paleo-DNA?  From what source?  Where do you get 100
		million year old dinosaur blood?!

				GENNARO
		Shhhhh!


20	IN THE FILM,

	the screen-Hammond is joined by another figure, this one 
	animated.  MR. DNA is a cartoon character, a happy-go-lucky double-
	helix strand of recombinant DNA.  Mr. DNA jumps down onto the screen-
	Hammond's head and slides down his nose.

				HAMMOND
		Well!  Mr. DNA!  Where'd you come from?

				MR. DNA
		From your blood!  Just one drop of your blood contains 
		billions of strands of DNA, the building blocks of life!


21 	OMITTED


22	IN THE FILM,

	Mr. DNA has taken over the show, and is speaking to the audience 
	from the screen.

				MR. DNA
		A DNA strand like me is a blueprint for building a 
		living thing!  And sometimes animals that went extinct 
		millions of years ago, like dinosaurs, left their 
		blueprints behind for us to find!  We just had to know 
		where to look!

	The screen image changes from animated to a nature- photography 
	look.  It's an extreme close-up of a mosquito, its fangs suck the deep 
	into some animals flesh, its body pulsing and engorging with blood it's 
	drinking.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		A hundred million years ago, there were mosquitoes, just
		like today.  And, just like today, they fed on the blood 
		of animals.  Even dinosaurs!

	The camera races back to show the mosquito is perched on top of 
	a giant animated brachiosaur.

	The image changes, to another close-up, this one of a tree 
	branch, its bark glistening with golden sap.  Mr. DNA leaps on the sap.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		Sometimes, after biting a dinosaur, the mosquito would 
		land on a branch of a tree, and get stuck in the sap!

	The engorged mosquito lands in the tree sap, and gets stuck.  So 
	is Mr. DNA.  He tugs his legs, but they stay stuck.

				MR. DNA
		WHOA!

	Now the tree sap flows over them, covering up Mr. DNA and the 
	mosquito completely.  Mr. DNA SHOUTS from inside the tree sap.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		After a long time, the tree sap would get hard and 
		become fossilized, just like a dinosaur bone, preserving 
		the mosquito inside!


23	A SCIENCE LABORATORY
	
	The place buzzes with activity.  Everywhere, there are piles of 
	amber, tagged and labeled with SCIENTISTS in white coats examining it 
	under microscopes.

	One SCIENTIST moves a complicated drill apparatus next to the 
	chuck of amber with a fossilized mosquito inside and BORES into the 
	side of it.  MR. DNA escapes through the drill hole as the Scientist 
	moves the amber onto a microscope and peers through the eyepiece.

				MR. DNA (O.S.)
		This fossilized tree sap -- which we call amber � 
		waited millions of years, with the mosquito inside � 
		until Jurassic Park's scientists came along!


24	THROUGH THE MICROSCOPE

	We see the greatly enlarged image of a mosquito through the 
	lens.

				MR. DNA (O.S.)
		Using sophisticated techniques, they extract the 
		preserved blood from the mosquito, 
		and - -

	A long needle is inserted through the amber, into the thorax of 
	the mosquito, and makes an extraction.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		- -Bingo!  Dino DNA!

	Mr. DNA jumps down in front of DNA data as it races by at 
	headache speed.  He holds his head, dizzied by it.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		A full DNA strand contains three billion genetic codes! 
		If we looked at screens like these once a second for 
		eight hours a day, it'd take two years to look at the 
		entire strand!  It's that long!  And since it's so old, 
		it's full of holes!  That's where our geneticists take 
		over!


25A	INT	GENETICS LAB	DAY

	SCIENTISTS toil in a lab with two huge white towers at either 
	side.

				MR. DNA
		Thinking Machine supercomputers and gene sequencers 
		break down the strand in minutes - -

	One SCIENTIST, in the back has his arms encased in two long 
	rubber tubes.  He's strapped into a bizarre apparatus, staring into a 
	complex headpiece and moving his arms gently, like Tai Chi movements.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		- - and Virtual Reality displays show our geneticists
		the gaps in the DNA sequence!  Since most animal DNA is 
		ninety percent identical, we use the complete DNA of a 
		frog - -


25B	ON THE V.R. DISPLAY

	we see an actual DNA strand, except it has a big hole in the 
	center, where the vital information is missing.  Mr. DNA bounds into 
	the frame, carrying a butch of letters in one hand.

	He puts it in the gap and turns back against it, GRUNTING as he 
	shoves into place.

				MR. DNA
			(straining)
		- - to fill in the - - holes and - -complete - - the - -
			(finally getting it)
		- - code!  Whew!

	He brushes his hands off, satisfied.

				MR. DNA (cont'd)
		Now we can make a baby dinosaur!


26	IN THE AUDIENCE

	The scientist look at each other, not sure.

				HAMMOND
		All this has some dramatic music - - da dum da dum da 
		dum dum - - march or something, it's not written yet, 
		and the tour moves on - - 

	He throws a switch and safety bars appear out of nowhere and 
	drop over their seats, CLICKING into place.

				HAMMOND
		For your own safety!

	The row of seats moves out of the auditorium.


27	INT	HALLWAY	DAY

	The row of seats moves slowly past a row of double-panned glass 
	window beneath a large sign that reads 
	"GENETICS/FERTILIZATION/HATCHERY."  Inside, TECHNICIANS work at 
	microscopes.

	In the back is a section entirely lit by blue ultraviolet light.

	Mr. DNA VOICE continues over a speaker in each seat.

				MR. DNA (O.S.)
		Our fertilization department is where the dinosaur DNA 
		takes the place of the DNA in unfertilized emu or 
		ostrich eggs - - and then it's on to the nursery, where 
		we welcome the dinosaurs back into the world!

	GENNARO has a wondrous grin plastered on his face, just loving 
	everything now.

				GENNARO
		This is overwhelming, John.  Are these characters 
		(people) animatronics?

				HAMMOND
		No, we don't have any animatronics here.  These are the 
		real miracle workers of Jurassic Park.

	GRANT, ELLIE, and MALCOLM are frustrated, leaning forward, 
	straining against the safety bars for a better look.  But the cars keep 
	going.

				GRANT
		Wait a minute!  How do you interrupt the cellular 
		mitosis?!?

				ELLIE
		Can't we see the unfertilized host eggs?!

	But the cars are already moving on to another set of windows, 
	which give a glimpse into what looks like a control room.

				HAMMOND
		Shortly, shortly....

				MR. DNA (O.S.)
		Our control room contains some of the most sophisticated
		automation ever attempted 
		in - -

	Grant strains to look back into the labs, but the cars move past 
	again, no intention of slowing down.

				GRANT
		Can't you stop these things?!

				HAMMOND
		Sorry!  It's kind of a ride!

				GRANT
			(to Malcolm)
		Let's get outta here!

	The two of them team up on the safety bars.  Grant shoves his 
	all the way back with one foot and Malcolm does the same.  They stand 
	up and head for the door of the hatchery.

				GENNARO
		Hey!  You can't do that!

	Too late.  Ellie slips out from under her safety bar too 
	and stomps right across Gennaro's seat.

				GENNARO
		Can they do that?

	They reach the door to the hatchery.  Grant tries to shove it 
	open, but just THUDS into it.  He rattles the handle, but the door 
	won't budge as it's on a security key-card system.

	HAMMOND steps up and takes his glasses off.

				HAMMOND
		Relax, Donald, relax.  They're scientists,  They ought
		to be curious.
			(he steps up to the code box)
		It's a retinal scanner.

	He pushes various code numbers.  The door opens.  He steps 
	aside, and the group eagerly goes up the stairs.


28	INT.	HALLWAY/STAIRS	-	DAY

	GRANT runs up the stairs.  MALCOLM and ELLIE eagerly try to get 
	a look at the lab.  HAMMOND and GENNARO come up and join Grant at the 
	door.

				GENNARO
		John, we - - what I'm just saying....

				HAMMOND
		Relax Donald, relax.  They're scientists.  They ought to
		be curious.

	Hammond reaches the door,  Grant tries to pry it open.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Dr. Grant, just a minute, just a minute,
			(or)
		Dr. Grant, just a moment, dear boy.
		(he pushes the code; the door opens)
		Remember what Samuel Johnson said.
			(they step into the cubicle)
		"Curiosity is one of the permanent and certain
		characteristics of a vigorous intellect!"
			(the second door opens)
		Right!  Come along.


INT	HATCHERY/NURSERY	DAY

	The hatchery is a vast, open room, bathed in infrared light.  
	Long tables run the length of the place, all covered with eggs, their 
	pale outlines obscured by hissing low mist that's all through the room.

				HAMMOND
		Come on in.

	HAMMOND takes off his hat and hands it one of the technicians.

	HENRY WU, late twenties, Asian-American, wearing a white lab 
	coat works at a nearby table, making notes.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Good day, Henry.

				WU
		Oh, good day, Sir.

	GRANT goes to a round, open with various eggs under a strong 
	light.

	One of the eggs makes strong movements - a robotic arm steadies 
	the shell.

				GRANT
		My God!  Look!

	Hammond, Ellie, and Malcolm join him, as does Henry Wu.

				WU
		Ah, perfect timing!  I'd hoped they'd hatch before I had 
		to go to the boat.

				HAMMOND
		Henry, why didn't you tell me?  you know I insist on
		being here when they're born.

	Hammond puts on a pair of plastic gloves.

	The egg begins to crack.  The robotic arm moves away....a BABY 
	DINOSAUR tries to get out, just its head sticking out of the shell.

	Hammond reaches down and carefully breaks away egg fragments, 
	helping the baby dinosaur out of its shell.

				HAMMOND
		Come on, then, out you come.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		They imprint on the first living creature they come in
		contact with.  That helps them to trust me.  I've been 
		present for the birth of every animal on this Island.  
		Just look at that.

				MALCOLM
		Surely not the ones that have bred in the wild?

				WU
		Actually, they can't breed in the wild.  Population 
		control is one of our security precautions here.  There 
		is no unauthorized breeding in Jurassic Park.

	Grant and Ellie exchange a look.  She manages not to smile.

				MALCOLM
		How do you know they can't breed?

				WU
		Because all the animals in Jurassic Park are females.  
		(I've) We engineered them that way.

	Hammond keeps his attention trained on the new dinosaur.

				HAMMOND
		There you are.  Out you come.

				ELLIE
		Oh my God.

				HAMMOND
		Could I have a tissue please?

				WU
		Right away (certainly).  Coming right up.

	The animal is now free, Hammond sets in don carefully next to 
	its shell.  Grant picks it up and holds it in the palm of his hand, 
	under the incubator's heat light.

				GRANT
		Blood temperature feels like high eighties.

				HAMMOND
		Wu?

				WU
		Ninety-one.

	Grant picks up the large, broken half-shell, but the robotic arm 
	snatches it back out of his hand, and puts it down.

				GRANT
		Homoeothermic?  It holds that temperature?
			(to Wu)
		Incredible.

	Malcolm is looking at Hammond, skeptical.

				MALCOLM
		But again, how do you know they're all female?  Does
		someone go into the park and, uh  - - lift up the 
		dinosaurs' skirts?

				WU
		We control their chromosomes.  It's not that difficult.  
		All vertebrate embryos are inherently female anyway.  It takes an extra 
		hormone at the right developmental stage to create a male, and we 
		simply deny them that.

				HAMMOND
		Your silence intrigues me.

				MALCOLM
		John, the kind of control you're attempting is not 
		possible.  If there's one thing the history of evolution 
		has taught us, it's that life will not be contained.  
		Life breaks free.  It expands to new territories.  It 
		crashes through barriers.  Painfully, maybe even.. 
		dangerously, but and...well, there it is.

	Ellie listens to him, impressed.

				HAMMOND
		Watch her head - support her head.

	Grant, ignoring the others, picks up the baby dinosaur, and 
	holds it on the palm of his hand, under the incubator's heat light.  He 
	spreads the tiny animal out on the back of his hand and delicately runs 
	his finger over its tail, counting the vertebrae.  A look of puzzled 
	recognition crosses his face.

				WU
		You're implying that a group of composed entirely of 
		females will breed?

				MALCOLM
		I'm simply saying that life - - finds a way.

				ELLIE
		"You can't control anything."  I agree with that.  I 
		like that.

	She walks over to Malcolm, he smiles at her, too warmly.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		You can talk.  I don't k now how to say it.  You're just 
		articulate.  You say everything that I think, that I 
		feel.  It's exciting.
			(or)
		I find it so exciting.  It's exciting that you can't 
		control life, that you know - -
			(or)
		You know that, I find it terrifying.  Life will always 
		find a way.

				MALCOLM
		That's right.  Will break through.

				ELLIE
		I get ah - -

				MALCOLM
		I know, it's very exciting.

				ELLIE
		And scary.

				MALCOLM
		And scary.

				ELLIE
		When people try to control things that it's out of their
		power - -

				MALCOLM
		It's anti-nature.

				ELLIE
		Anti-nature.

	Grant doesn't notice, as he's still obsessed with the infant 
	dinosaur, measuring and weighing it on a nearby lab bench.  He stops, a 
	strange look on his face.  He knows what this animal is - - but it 
	can't be.

				GRANT
			(dreading the answer)
		What species is this?

				WU
		Uh - - it's a Velociraptor.

	Grant and Ellie turn slowly and look at each other, then look at 
	Hammond, astonished.

				GRANT
		You bred raptors?


29	EXT.	RAPTOR PEN	-	DAY

	Grant charges across the compound, a fire in his eyes, ahead of 
	ELLIE, MALCOLM, and GENNARO.  HAMMOND struggles to keep up.

				HAMMOND
		Dr. Grant, Dr. Grant?  Uh - -we planned to show you the
		raptors later, after lunch.

	But Grant has stopped abruptly next to the Velociraptor pen, 
	which we recognize as the heavily fortified cage we some earlier, which 
	the San Quentin towers at one end.

	Grant stands right up against the fence, eyes wide, dying for a 
	glimpse.

	HAMMOND catches up, slightly out of breath.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Dr. Grant - - as I was saying, we've laid out lunch for
		you before you head out into the park.  Alejandro, our 
		gourmet chef - -

				GRANT
		What are they doing?

	As they watch, a giant crane lowers something large down into 
	the middle of the jungle foliage inside the pen.  Something very large.

	It's a steer.  They poor thing looks disconcerted as hell, 
	helpless its in a harness, flailing its legs in the air.

				HAMMOND
		Feeding them.
			(moving along)
		Alejandro is preparing a delightful meal for us.  A 
		Chilean sea bass, I believe.  Shall we?

	Grant goes up to the viewing deck.  The others follow, staring 
	as the steer disappears into the shroud of foliage.  The line from the 
	crane hangs for a moment.

	The jungle seems to grow very quiet.  They all stare at the 
	motionless crane line.  It jerks suddenly, like a fishing pole finally 
	getting a nibble.  There's a pause - -

	- - and then a frenzy.  The line jerks every which way, the 
	jungle plants sway and SNAP from some frantic activity within, there is 
	a cacophony of GROWLING, of SNAPPING, of wet CRUNCHES that mean the 
	steer is literally being torn to pieces and is almost makes it worse 
	that we can't see anything of what's going on - -

	- - and then it's quiet again.  The line jerks a few times, then 
	stops.  Slowly the SOUND of the jungle starts up again.

				HAMMOND
		Fascinating animals, fascinating.

				ELLIE
		Oh my God.

				HAMMOND
		Give time, they'll out draw the T-rex.  Guarantee it.

				GRANT
		I want to see them.  Can we get closer?

	Ellie puts a hand on his arm, like calming an overexcited child.

				ELLIE
		Alan, these aren't bones anymore.

				HAMMOND
		We're - - still perfecting a viewing system.  The
		raptors seem to be a bit resistant to integration into a
		park setting.

	A VOICE comes from behind them.

				VOICE (O.S.)
		They should all be destroyed.

	They turn and look at the man who spoke.  ROBERT MULDOON, the 
	grim-faced man who was present at the accident in the beginning, is 
	fortyish, British.

	He joins them and takes his hat off.  When Muldoon talks, you 
	listen.

				HAMMOND
		Robert.  Robert Muldoon, my game warden from Kenya.  Bit
		of an alarmist, I'm afraid, But he's dealt with the 
		raptors more than anyone.

				GRANT
			(introducing himself)
		Alan Grant.  Tell me, what kind of metabolism do they
		have?  What's their growth rate?
			(or)
		rate of growth.

				MULDOON
		They're lethal at eight months.  And I do lethal.  I've
		hunted most things that can hunt you, but the way these 
		things move - -

				GRANT
		Fast for biped?

				MULDOON
		Cheetah speed.  Fifty, sixty miles per hour if they ever
		got out in the open.  And they're astonishing jumpers.

				HAMMOND
		Yes, yes, yes, which is why we take extreme precautions.
		They viewing area below us will have eight-inch tempered 
		glass set in reinforced steel frames to - -

				GRANT
		Do they show intelligence?  With the brain cavity like 
		theirs we assumed - -

				MULDOON
		They show extreme intelligence, even problem solving. 
		Especially the big one.  We bred eight originally, but 
		when she came in, she took over the pride and killed all 
		but two of the others.  That one - -when she looks at 
		you, you can see she's thinking (or) working things 
		out.  She's the reason we have to feed 'em like this.  
		She had them all attacking the fences when the feeders 
		came.

				ELLIE
		The fences are electrified, right?

				MULDOON
		That's right.  But they never attack the same place 
		twice.  They were testing the fences for weaknesses.  
		Systematically.  They remembered.

	Behind them, the crane WHIRRS back to life, raising the cable 
	back up out of the raptor pen.  The guest turn and stare as the end 
	portion of the cable becomes visible.  The steer has been dragged 
	completely away, leaving only the tattered, bloody harness.

	Hammond claps his hands together excitedly.
	
				HAMMOND
		Who's hungry?  After you, my dear.


30	INT.	VISITOR CENTER PRESENTATION ROOM - DAY

	HAMMOND, GRANT, ELLIE, MALCOLM, and GANNARO eat lunch at a long 
	table in the visitor's center restaurant.

	There is a large buffet table and two WAITERS to serve them.

	The room is darkened and Hammond is showing slides of various 
	scenes all around them.  Hammond's own recorded voice describes current 
	and future features of the park while the slides flash artists' 
	renderings of all them.

	The real Hammond turns and speaks over the narration.

				HAMMOND
	None of these attractions have been finished yet.  The 
	park will open with the basic tour you're about to take, 
	and then other rides will come on line after six or 
	twelve months.  Absolutely spectacular designs.  Spared 
	no expense.

	More slides CLICK past, a series of graphs dealing with profits, 
	attendance and other fiscal projections.  Donald Gennaro, who has 
	become increasingly friendly with Hammond, even giddy, grins from ear 
	to ear.

				GENNARO
		And we can charge anything we want!  Two thousand a day, 
		ten thousand a day - - people will pay it!  And then
		there's the merchandising - -

				HAMMOND
		Donald, this park was not built to carter only to the 
		super rich.  Everyone in the world's got a right to 
		enjoy these animals.

				GENNARO
		Sure, they will, they will.
			(laughing)
		We'll have a - - coupon day or something.

	Grant looks down, at the plate he's eating from.  It's in the 
	shape of the island itself.  He looks at his drinking cup. It's got a 
	T-rex on it, and a splashy Jurassic Park logo.

	There are a stack of folded amusement park-style maps on the 
	table in front of Grant.  He picks one up.  Boldly, across the top it 
	says, "Fly United to Jurassic Park!"

				HAMMOND
			(on tape)
		- - from combined revenue streams for all three parks	
		should reach eight to nine billion dollars a year - - 

				HAMMOND
			(to Gennaro)
		That's conservative, of course.  There's no reason to 
		speculate wildly.

				GENNARO
		I've never been a rich man.  I hear it's nice.  Is it
		nice?

	Ian Malcolm, who was been watching the screens with outright 
	contempt, SNORTS, as if he's finally had enough.

				MALCOLM
		The lack of humility before nature that's been displayed
		here staggers me.

	They all turn and look at him.

				GENNARO
		Thank you, Dr. Malcolm, but I think things are a little
		different than you and I feared.

				MALCOLM
		Yes, I know.  They're a lot worse.

				GENNARO
		Now, wait a second, we haven't even see the park yet.  
		Let's just hold out concerns until - -
			(or alt. version)
		Wait - we were invited to this island to evaluate the
		safety conditions of the park, physical containment.  
		The theories that all simple systems have complex 
		behavior, that animals in a zoo environment will 
		eventually begin to behave in an unpredictable fashion 
		have nothing to do with that evaluation.  This is not 
		some existential furlough, this is an on-site 
		inspection.  You are a doctor.  Do your job.  You are 
		invalidating your own assessment.  I'm sorry, John - -

				HAMMOND
		Alright Donald, alright, but just let him talk.  I want 
		to hear all viewpoints.  I truly do.
			(or)
		I truly am.

				MALCOLM
		Don't you see the danger, John, inherent in what you're 
		doing here?  Genetic power is the most awesome force 
		ever seen on this planet.  But you wield it like a kid 
		who's found his dad's gun.

				MALCOLM	GENNARO
		If I may....	It is hardly appropriate 
		to start hurling
		Excuse me, excuse me - -	generalizations before - -
		I'll tell you.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		The problem with scientific power you've used is it 
		didn't require any discipline to attain it.  You read 
		what others had done and you took the next step.  You 
		didn't earn the knowledge yourselves, so you don't take 
		the responsibility for it.  You stood on the shoulders 
		of geniuses to accomplish something as fast as you 
		could, and before you knew what you had, you patented 
		it, packages it, slapped in on a plastic lunch box, and 
		now you want to sell it.

				HAMMOND
		You don't give us our due credit.  Our scientists have 
		done things no one could ever do before.

				MALCOLM
		Your scientists were so preoccupied with whether or not 
		they could that they didn't stop to think if they 
		should.  Science can create pesticides, but it can't 
		tell us not to use them.  Science can make a nuclear 
		reactor, but it can't tell us not to build it!

				HAMMOND
		But this is nature!  Why not give an extinct species a 
		second chance?!  I mean, Condors. Condors are on the 
		verge of extinction - - if I'd created a flock of them 
		on the island, you wouldn't be saying any of this!
			(or)
		have anything to say at all!

				MALCOLM
		Hold on - - this is no species that was obliterated by 
		deforestation or the building of a dam.  Dinosaurs had 
		their shot.  Nature selected them for extinction.

				HAMMOND
		I don't understand this Luddite attitude, especially 
		from a scientist.  How could we stand in the light of 
		discovery and not act?

				MALCOLM
		There's nothing that great about discovery.
			(or)
		What's so great about discovery?  It's a violent, 
		penetrative act that scars what it explores.  What you 
		call discovery I call the rape of the natural world!

				GENNARO
		Please - - let's hear something from the others.  Dr.
		Grant?  I am sorry - - Dr. Sattler?

				ELLIE
		The question is - - how much can you know about an 
		extinct ecosystem, and therefore, how could you assume 
		you can control it?  You have plants right here in this 
		building, for example, that are poisonous.  You picked 
		them because they look pretty, but these are aggressive 
		living things that have no idea what century they're 
		living in and will defend themselves.  Violently, if 
		necessary.

	Exasperated, Hammond turns to Grant, who looks shell-shocked.

				HAMMOND
		Dr. Grant, if there's one person who can appreciate all 
		of this - -
			(or)
		What am I trying to do?

	But Grant speaks quietly, really thrown by all of this.

				GRANT
		I feel - - elated and - - frightened and - -
			(starts over)
		The world has just changed so radically.  We're all 
		running to catch up.  I don't want to jump to any 
		conclusions, but look - -

	He leans forward, a look of true concern on his face.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Dinosaurs and man - - two species separated by 65 
		million years of evolution - - have just been suddenly 
		thrown back into the mix together.  How can we have the 
		faintest idea of what to expect?

				HAMMOND
		I don't believe it.  I expected you to come down here 
		and defend me from these characters and the only one 
		I've got on my side it the bloodsucking lawyer!?

				GENNARO
		Thank you.

	One of the WAITERS whispers to Hammond.

				HAMMOND
		Ah - - they're here.

				GRANT
		Who?

A31	INT	VISITOR'S CENTER LOBBY - DAY

	HAMMOND, GRANT, ELLIE, MALCOLM, and GENNARO walks out of the 
	restaurant and into the lobby of the visitor's center.  They head down 
	the stairs, and pass the skeletons of the dinosaurs again.

				HAMMOND
		You four are going to have a little company out in the 
		park.  Spend a little time with our target audience.  
		Maybe they'll help you get the spirit of this place.

				GRANT
		What does he mean by "target audience"?

	Hammond turns toward the door of the center and throws his arms 
	out expansively.

				HAMMOND
			(bellowing)
		KIDS!!

	Two kids standing in the doorway to the center break into a broad 
	smiles.  TIM, the boy, is about nine years old; ALEXIX, his sister, 
	looks around twelve.

				TIM & LEX
		Grandpa!

	They race across the lobby and into Hammond's arms, knocking him 
	over on the steps.

				LEX
		We miss you.

				TIM
		Thanks for the presents.

				LEX
		We love the presents.

				HAMMOND
		You must be careful with me.  Did you like the 
		helicopter?

				TIM
		It was great!  It drops, we were dropping!

	Grant looks on.


31	EXT	VISITOR'S CENTER	DAY

	Two modified Ford Explorers leap up out of an underground garage 
	beneath the visitor's center.  They move quietly, with a faint 
	electronic HUM, and straddle a partially buried metal rail is the 
	middle of the road.  They pull to a stop where the group is gathered.

	Ellie is off to the side with ALEXIS, introducing herself 
	warmly.

	HAMMOND is with MALCOLM, GRANT, and GENNARO.

				HAMMOND
		Have a heart gentlemen.  Their parents are getting a 
		divorce and they need the diversion.

				GENNARO
		Hey!  Where are the brakes?

				HAMMOND
		Brakes?  No.  No brakes.  They're electric cars, guided 
		by this track in the roadway, and totally non-polluting, 
		top of the line!

				LEX
		It's interactive CD-ROM.  Look, see - - you just touch 
		the right part of the screen and it talks about whatever 
		you want.

				HAMMOND
		Spared no expense.  Have fun.  I'll be watching you from 
		the control (or) back in control.
			(to Ellie)
		Come along, my dear.  You'll ride in the second car, I 
		can promise you you'll have a real wonderful time.

				ELLIE
		Oh thank you so much.  So you'll see you later then.

	Hammond turns and head back towards the Visitor's Center.

				MALCOLM
			(too eagerly; to Grant)
		I'll ride with Dr. Sattler.
			(or)
		I'm going to ride with Dr. Sattler.

	He turns and walks over to Ellie.  Grant frowns, not liking this 
	one bit.  He moves to follow, but TIM cuts him off, and stares up at 
	him, wide-eyed

				TIM
		I read your book.

				GRANT
		Oh, yeah - - great.

	Grant heads for the rear car.  Tim follows.

				TIM
		You really think dinosaurs turned into birds?  And 
		that's where all the dinosaurs went?

	Grant opens the door of the rear car and climbs in.  Tim 
	follows.

				GRANT
		Well, uh, a few species - - may have evolved, uh - - 
		along those lines - - yeah.

	A mechanical voice intones from inside:

				VOICE
		"Two to four passengers to a car, please.  Children 
		under ten must be accompanied by an adult."

	Tim is right behind Grant, so Grant keeps moving, across the 
	back seat of the car and out the other door.  But Tim follows.

				TIM
		Because they sure don't look like birds to me.  I heard 
		a meteor hit the earth and made like this one hundred 
		mile crater someplace down in Mexico - -

				GRANT
		Listen, ahh - -

				TIM
		Tim.

				GRANT
		Tim.  Which car were you planning on - -

				TIM
		Whichever one you are.

	Grant goes to the front car again, opens the rear door, and 
	holds it for Tim, who climbs in the back seat, rattling on and on.

				TIM
		Then I head about this thing in OMNI?  About the meteor 
		making all this heat that made a bunch of diamond dust?  
		And that changed the weather and they died because of 
		the weather?  Then my teacher told me about this other 
		book by a guy named Bakker?  And he said the dinosaurs 
		died of a bunch of diseases.

	SLAM!  Grant closes the car door on Tim.  He turns and head for 
	the rear vehicle - -

	- - and bumps right into Lex.

				LEX
			(points at Ellie)
		She said I should ride with you because it would be good 
		for you.

	Grant looks over at Ellie, annoyed.

				GRANT
		She's a deeply neurotic woman.


	CUT TO:


32	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	The Jurassic Park control room looks like a mission control for 
	a space launch, with several computer terminals and dozens of video 
	screens that display images of various dinosaurs, taken from all over 
	the park.

	There's a large glass map of the island at the front of the room 
	that is lit up like a Christmas tree with various colored lights, each 
	one with a number and identification code next to it.

	But the place is unfinished, with unattached cables, 
	construction materials, and ladders scattered about.

	The mood among the half dozen TECHNICIANS present is chaotic as 
	they rush around with last-minute adjustments.

	MULDOON whisks in through the double doors.  HAMMOND is right 
	behind him.  They go straight to the main console, where RAY ARNOLD 
	fortyish, a chronic worrier and chain-smoker, is seated.

				MULDOON
		National Weather Service is tracking a tropical storm 
		about seventy-five miles west of us.

	Hammond sighs and looks over Arnold's shoulder.

				HAMMOND
		Why didn't I build in Orlando?

				MULDOON
		I'll keep an eye on it.  Maybe it'll swing south like 
		the last one.

				HAMMOND
			(a deep breath)
		Ray, start the tour program.

	He punches a button on the console.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
			(not exactly comforting)
		Hold onto your butts.


	CUT TO:


33	EXT	VISITOR'S CENTER	DAY

	With a loud CHUNK, the Explorers start forward along the 
	electrical pathway.

	GENNARO, TIM, and LEX are in the front vehicle; GRANT, ELLIE, 
	and MALCOLM in the rear.


33A	EXT	MAIN GATES	DAY

	They pass through two enormous, primitive gates, torches blazing 
	on either side.


34	EXT	JURASSIC PARK DAY

	IN THE REAR CAR, the Explorer's speakers BLARE with fanfare of 
	trumpets, and the interior video screen flashes "Welcome to Jurassic 
	Park."  A familiar VOICE comes over the speaker:

				VOICE (O.S.)
		Welcome to Jurassic Park.  You are now entering the lost 
		world of the prehistoric past, a world - -

				VOICE (cont'd)
		creatures long gone from the face of the earth, which 
		you are privileged to see for the first time.

INT	CONTROL ROOM

	HAMMOND watches the monitor.  His grandchildren are enjoying 
	themselves.

				HAMMOND
		By the way, that's James Earl Jones (or) Richard Kiley.
		We spared no expense!

	IN THE PARK, 

	the fences are retaining walls are covered with greenery and 
	growth, to heighten the illusion of moving through a jungle.

	IN THE FRONT CAR

				GENNARO
		The accident took place in a restricted area.  It would 
		not have been available to the public access.  So how 
		can the safety of the public be called into question?

	The cars come to the top of a low rise, where a break in the foliage 
	gives them a view down a sloping field that is broken by a river.  The 
	tour voice continues.

				VOICE (O.S.)
	To the right, you will see a herd of the first dinosaurs 
	on our tour, called Dilophosaurus.

	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	Tim and Lex practically SLAM up against the windows, to get a look.

				GENNARO
			(keeps talking)
		The safety.  That's the problem I had to answer.

				LEX
		Shhh.

				TIM
		I can't see.

				GENNARO
		What are we looking for?

				TIM
		Dilophosaurus.

	IN THE REAR CAR

	Grant looks at his map.  Ellie, hearing the voice, reacts.
	
				ELLIE
		Oh, shit.

				GRANT
		Dilophosaurus.

	Grant, Malcolm, and Ellie press against the windows.

	DOWN NEAR THE RIVER BANK

	there are a lot of beautiful plants, but no sign of a herd of anything.  
	The tour voice continues anyway.

				VOICE (O.S.)
	One of the earliest carnivores, we now know 
	Dilophosaurus is actually poisonous, spitting its venom 
	at its prey, causing blindness and eventually paralysis, 
	allowing the carnivore to eat at its leisure.  This 
	makes Dilophosaurus a beautiful, but deadly addition to 
	Jurassic Park.

	Corny SCARY MUSIC plays over the speaker.

	IN THE FRONT CAR,

				TIM
		There's nothing there!

	IN THE REAR CAR,

				ELLIE
		Alan, where?

	Grant and the others sit back, disappointed.

				GRANT
		Damn.

	ON THE ROAD,

	the cars move on.  As they roll past, we notice the headlights are on, 
	even in the daytime.


	CUT TO:


35	INT	CONTROL ROOM DAY

	RAY ARNOLD watches his computer screen and the video monitors at 
	the same time, keeping an eye on the cars as they move through the 
	park.  HAMMOND hovers over his shoulder.

				ARNOLD
		Vehicle headlights are on and don't respond.  Those 
		shouldn't be running off the car batteries.

		He signs and reaches for a clipboard hanging next to his chair 
		and jots this down.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		Item one fifty-one on today's glitch list.  We've got 
		all the problems of a major theme park and a major zoo, 
		and the computer's not even on its feet yet.

	Hammond shakes his head and turns to the TECHNICIAN to his 
	right, who still has his back to them, watching a Costa Rican game show 
	on one of his monitors and drinking a Jolt cola.

				HAMMOND
		Dennis, our lives are in your hands and you have 
		butterfingers.

	The Technician turns around his chair and extends his arms in a 
	Christ-like pose.  As we get a good look at him, we get the sinking 
	feeling that we've seen him somewhere before.  And we have.  DENNIS 
	NEDRY is the man who accepted a suitcase full of cash in San Jose.

				NEDRY
		I am totally unappreciated in my time.  We can run the 
		whole park from this room, with minimal staff, for up to 
		three days.  You think that kind of automation is easy? 
		Or cheap? You know anybody who can network eight 
		Connection Machines and de-bug two million lines of code 
		for what I bid this job?  Because I'd sure as hell like 
		to see them try.

				HAMMOND
		I'm sorry about your financial problems.  I really am. 
		But they are your problems.

				NEDRY
		You're right, John.  You're absolutely right.  
		Everything's my problem.

				HAMMOND
		I will not get drawn into another financial conversation 
		with you, Dennis.  I really will not.

				NEDRY
		I don't think there's been any debate.  There's no 
		debate...my mistakes....

				HAMMOND
		I don't blame people for their mistakes, but I do ask 
		that they pay for them.

				NEDRY
		Thanks, Dad.

				ARNOLD
		Dennis - -the headlights.

				NEDRY
		I'll de-bug the tour program when they get back.  Okay?  
		It'll eat a lot of computer cycles; parts of the system 
		may go down for a while - - Don't blame me.  If I am 
		playing...losing memory....

	MULDOON, who has been hovering near the video monitors as 
	always, turns towards them, annoyed.

				MULDOON
	Quiet, all if you.  They're coming to the tyrannosaur 
	paddock.


	CUT TO:


36	EXT	TYRANNOSAUR PADDOCK	DAY

	The two Explorers drive along a high ridge and stop at the edge 
	of the large, open plain that is separated from the road by a fifteen-
	foot fence, clearly marked with "DANGER!" signs and ominous-looking 
	electrical post.

	TIM, LEX, and GENNARO are pressed forward against the windows, 
	eyes wide, waiting for you-know-who.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

	The voice of the radio drones on, but GRANT, ELLIE, and MALCOLM 
	aren't even listening anymore, dying of anticipation.

				VOICE (O.S.)
		The mighty tyrannosaurus arose late in the dinosaur
		history.  Dinosaurs ruled the earth for hundred and 
		fifty million years, but it wasn't until the last- -

				GRANT
		Will you turn that thing off?

	Ellie flips a switch and they wait in silence - - except for 
	Malcolm, who looks at the ceiling, thinking aloud.

				MALCOLM
		God creates dinosaurs.  God destroys dinosaurs.  God 
		creates man.  Man destroys God.  Man creates dinosaurs.

				ELLIE
			(finishing it for him)
		Dinosaur eats man.  Woman inherits the Earth.

				ARNOLD (O.S.)
		Hold on, we'll try to tempt the rex.

	IN THE PADDOCK,

	there is a low HUMMING sound.  Out in the middle of the field, a 
	small cage rises up into view, lifted on hydraulics from underground.
	
	The cage bars slide down, leaving the cage's occupant standing 
	alone in the middle of the field.

	It's a goat, one leg chained to a stake.  It looks around, 
	confused, and BLEATS plaintively.

	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	LEX and TIM look at the goat with widely different reactions.

				LEX
		What's going to happen to the goat?  He's going to eat 
		the goat?!

				TIM
			(in heaven)
		Excellent.

				GENNARO
			(to Lex)
		What's the matter, kid, you never had lamb chops?

				LEX
		I happen to be a vegetarian.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

				GRANT
		(shakes his head)
	T-rex doesn't want to be fed; he wants to hunt.  You
	can't just suppress sixty-five million years of gut 
	instinct.

	IN THE PADDOCK

	The goat waits.  And waits.  From the Explorers, six faces watch 
	it expectantly.  The goat tugs on its chain.  It walks back and forth, 
	nervous.  It BLEATS.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

	Grant watches, his eyes glued, his breathing becoming a little 
	more rapid.

	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	Tim and Lex can't tear their eyes away,

	IN THE PADDOCK,

	finally, the goat - -

	- - lays down.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

	everyone sits back, disappointed again, as the cars pull forward 
	to continue the tour.  Malcolm picks up the microphone.

				MALCOLM
		Now, eventually you do plan to have dinosaurs on your 
		dinosaur tour, right?


37	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	HAMMOND just shakes his head as Malcolm's voice comes through,

				HAMMOND
		I really hate that man.


38	EXT	PARK	DAY

	GRANT gets into the seat, leaving MALCOLM behind ELLIE.  He 
	longingly looks out of the opposite window, while Malcolm rattles on to 
	Ellie.

				MALCOLM
		You see?  The tyrannosaur doesn't obey set patterns or 
		park schedules.  It's the essence of Chaos.

				ELLIE
		I'm still not clear on Chaos.

				MALCOLM
		It simply deals with unpredictability in complex 
		systems.  It's only principle is the Butterfly Effect.  
		A butterfly can flap its wings in Peking and in Central 
		Park you get rain instead of sunshine.

	Ellie gestures with her hand to show this information has gone 
	right over her head.

				MALCOLM
		I made a fly by, I go too fast.

	Looking out of the opposite window, Grant sees movement at the 
	far end of a field.  He sits bolt upright, trying to get a better look.

	Malcolm, looking for another example - -

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
			(points to the glass of water)
		Here.  Give me your glass of water.

	He dips his hand into the glass of water.  He takes Ellie's hand 
	in his own.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Make like hieroglyphics.  Now watch the way the drop of 
		water falls on your hand.

	He flicks his fingers and a drop falls on the back of Ellie's 
	hand.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Ready?  Freeze your hand.  Now I'm going to do the same
		thing from the exact same place.  Which way is the drop 
		going to roll off?
			(or)
		Which way will the drop roll?  Over which finger?  Or 
		down your thumb?  Or to the other side?

				ELLIE
		Uh - - thumb!
			(or)
		The same way.

				MALCOLM
		It changed.  Why?
			(or)
		Okay, back over your wrist.
			(then)
		Because and here is the principle of tiny variations - -
		the orientations of the hairs - -

				ELLIE
		Alan, listen to this.

				MALCOLM
		- - on your hand, the amount of blood distending in your
		vessels, imperfections in the skin - -

				ELLIE
		Oh, imperfections?

				MALCOLM
		Microscopic - - never repeat, and vastly affect the 
		outcome.  That's what?

				ELLIE
		Unpredictability....

				MALCOLM
		And even if we haven't seen it yet, I'm quite sure it's 
		going on in this park right now.

	There's definitely something out in that field, and Grant has to 
	see it.

	He jerks on the door handle and opens his door a few inches.  He 
	looks outside towards freedom, then looks around to is anybody's 
	watching him.

	Malcolm lowers his voice, becoming more seductive now.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Life's a lot like that, isn't it?  You meet someone by 
		chance you'll never meet again, and the course of your 
		whole future changes.  It's dynamic - - its exciting - - 
		I think.

	Grant throws the door open and bolts out of the moving car.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		There, there see?!  I'm right again!

				ELLIE
		Alan?

				MALCOLM
		No one could have predicted Dr. Grant would suddenly 
		jump out of a moving vehicle!

				ELLIE
		Alan?

	She jumps out too and follows him into the field.

				MALCOLM
		There's another example!

	IN THE FRONT CAR,

				TIM
		Hey!  I want to go with them!

	IN THE REAR CAR,

				MALCOLM
		See?  Here I am now, by myself, talking to myself - -  
		that's Chaos Theory!  What the hell am I doing here?  
		I'm the only one who knows what's going on, etc, etc....

39	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	HAMMOND, MULDOON, and ARNOLD stare at the video monitor 
	incredulously as everyone now pouts out of the cars and follows Grant 
	down the hill.

	The cars roll on slowly, empty, their doors hanging open.

				ARNOLD
		Uh - - Mr. Hammond - -

				HAMMOND
		Stop the program!  Stop the program!

				MULDOON
		There you are!  How many times did I tell you we needed 
		locking mechanisms on the vehicle doors!

	ACROSS THE ROOM

	DENNIS NEDRY sneaks a peek at the video monitor.  It shows an 
	image of the steel door, plainly marked - - "EMBRYONIC COLD STORAGE.  
	RESTRICTED!"

	He looks to another monitor, which is labeled "EAST DOCK."  The 
	monitor shows a supply ship, moored at the dock.  Its cargo is being 
	uploaded and a large group of WORKERS is filing aboard.

	Nedry has something in the counter, where no one can see it.  
	It's a can of shaving cream.

40	EXT	PARK	DAY

	GRANT, ELLIE, GENNARO, and the KIDS are out in the open field, 
	heading towards a small stand of trees.  For the first time, we notice 
	the sky is darken rather early in the day.  Tim dogs Grant's footsteps, 
	so excited he can hardly keep his feet on the ground.

				TIM
		So like I was saying, there's this other book by a guy 
		named Bakker?  And he said dinosaurs died of a bunch of 
		diseases?  He definitely didn't say they turned into 
		birds.

	Gennaro is scared as hell, following the others, but his head 
	darting left and right.

				ELLIE
		Alan?  Where are we going?  You see something?

				GENNARO
		Uh - - anybody else think we shouldn't be out here?

				TIM
		And his book was a lot fatter than yours.

				GRANT
		Really?

				ELLIE
		Yours was fully illustrated, honey.

				GENNARO
		Anybody at all.  Feel free to speak up.

	Lex stumbles and Grant takes her hand, to stop her from falling.  
	She looks up at him and smiles.

	Grant smiles back and tries to recover his hand, but Lex holds 
	tight.  He's massively uncomfortable.  Ellie notices.

	Suddenly they all stop in their tracks.  A huge smile spreads 
	across the faces of both Tim and Grant.  Grant walks forward.  Tim 
	follows.

				ELLIE
		Timmy, Timmy.

				LEX
		Come back here, blanket head.

	Fearless, Tim walks forward behind Grant.

				HARDING (O.S.)
		Hi everybody,  Don't be scared.

	Tim reaches the clearing and sees:

	A Triceratops, a big one, lying on its side, blocking the light 
	at the end of the path.  It has an enormous curved shell that flanks 
	its head, two big horns over its eyes, and a third on the end of its 
	nose.  It doesn't move, just breathes, loud and raspy, blowing up a 
	little clouds of dust with every exhalation.

	Grant stands next to Harding, almost in a daze.

				GRANT
		Beautiful.  Is it okay?  Can I touch it?

				HARDING
		Sure.

	Grant walks next to the animal and strokes its head.  Ellie 
	moves forward to the animal.

				GRANT
		Oh Ellie.  It's so beautiful.  It's the most beautiful
		thing I ever saw.

				ELLIE
		It's my favorite.

	They both kneel, checking the animal.

	He furrows his bow, noticing something, all professional 
	curiosity now.  The animal's tongue, dark purple, droops limply from 
	its mouth.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Ellie, take a look at this.

				ELLIE
		Yeah, baby girl, it's okay.

	She scratches the tongue with her fingernail.  A clear liquid 
	leaks from the broken blisters.

				ELLIE
		Micro vesicles.  That's interesting.

	Grant, fascinated, wanders all the way around to the back of the 
	animal.  Harding joins Ellie and hands her his penlight.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		What are her symptoms?

				HARDING
		Imbalance, disorientation, labored breathing.  Seems to 
		happen about every six weeks or so.

				ELLIE
		Six weeks?

	She takes the penlight from the veterinarian and shines it in 
	the animal's eyes.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		Are there pupillary effects from the tranquilizer?

				HARDING
		Yes, mitotic, pupils should be constricted.

				ELLIE
		These are dilated.  Take a look.

				HARDING
		They are?
			(checks it out)
		I'll be damned.

				ELLIE
		That's pharmacological.  From local plant life.

	She turns and studies the surrounding landscape.  Her mind's 
	really at work, puzzling over each piece of foliage.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
			(pointing)
		Is that (or) this West Indian lilac?

				HARDING
		Yes.  We know they're toxic, but the animals don't eat
		them.

				ELLIE
		Are you sure?

				HARDING
		Pretty sure.

				ELLIE
		There's only one way to be positive.  I need to see some
		droppings.
			(or)
		I have to see the dinosaur's droppings.

				HARDING
		You won't be able to miss them.
			(or)
		Can't miss them.

	Malcolm walks up to Ellie.

				MALCOLM
		Dino droppings?

				ELLIE
		Yeah.

	She walks way, Malcolm looks on.


41A	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	HAMMOND and ARNOLD are watching the video monitors, displeased 
	about something.  Arnold is looking at one that gives them a view from 
	the beach, looking out at the ocean.  The clouds beyond are almost 
	black with a tropical storm.

				ARNOLD
		That storm center hasn't dissipated or changed course.
		We're going to have to cut the tour short, I'm afraid.  
		Pick it up again tomorrow where we left off.

				HAMMOND
		You're sure we have to?

				ARNOLD
		It's not worth taking the chance, John.

				MULDOON
			(into phone)
		Sustain winds 45 knots.

				HAMMOND
			(nods)
		Tell them when they get back to the cars.

				MULDOON
			(into phone)
		Thanks, Steve.

				ARNOLD
			(making an announcement to the others)
		Ladies and gentlemen, last shuttle to the dock leaves in 
		approximately five minutes.  Drop what you are doing and 
		leave now.

				HAMMOND
		Damn!


41	ACROSS THE ROOM

	NEDRY stares at his video monitor, watching the boat.  He's on 
	the phone with the MATE, whose images he can see on the monitor.  The 
	seas around the dock are much rougher now.

				MATE
		We're not well-berthed here without a storm barrier!  We 
		may have to leave as soon as the last of the works are 
		aboard.

				NEDRY
			(low voice)
		No, no.  You stick to the plan.  You wait till they're 
		back from the tour.



42	EXT	FIELD	DAY

	As the weather grows darker, ELLIE, GRANT, HARDING, and MALCOLM 
	are grouped around an enormous spoor of triceratops excreta that stands 
	at least waist high and is covered with BUZZING flies.

				MALCOLM
		That is one big pile of shit.

	Ellie has plastic gloves on the reach up to her elbows, and is 
	just withdrawing her hand from the middle of the dung.

				ELLIE
			(to Harding)
		You're right.  There's no trace of lilac berries.  
		That's so weird, though.  She shows all the classic 
		signs of Meliatoxicity,
			(thinking aloud)
		Every six weeks - -

	She turns and walks out into the open field a few paces, 
	thinking.  Malcolm watches her, and looks back at the dung.

				MALCOLM
			to Grant)
		She's, uh - - tenacious.

				GRANT
		You have no idea.

				MALCOLM
			to Ellie)
		You will remember to wash your hands before you eat 
		anything?


43	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY
	
	DENNIS NEDRY is busily and surreptitiously typing a series of 
	commands into his console.  On his screen, a cartoon hand winds up a 
	cartoon clock, moving its second hand up to the twelve.  The clock 
	rotates around to face us.

	It has a large green dollar sign in the middle.  A big word 
	appears on screen, an option surrounded by forbidding red box.  
	"EXECUTE," it says.


44	EXT	PARK	DAY
	
	The skies are really foreboding now, and there's a sense of 
	growing urgency.  ELLIE is by the animal, a short distance away from 
	the group.  GRANT is near her, thinking.

				GRANT
	Ellie, I've been thinking there's something about the 
	periodicity doesn't had up.

				ELLIE
		I know.

	Tim holds one of the smooth rocks up and calls out, a little 
	timidly.

				TIM
		These look kind of familiar.

				GRANT
		Triceratops was a constant browser, and constant 
		browsers would be constantly sick.

				ELLIE
		Constantly sick.

				GRANT
		Not just every six weeks.

				ELLIE
		Yeah, I know.

				TIM
		I've seen pictures of these!

	Grant turns and looks at him, a little annoyed.

				TIM
		In your fully illustrated book.

	Grant just rolls his eyes, but Ellie comes over and checks out 
	the stones.

				ELLIE
		What's that?

	A light goes on in her eyes.

				ELLIE 
		Alan - - gizzard stones!

	She throws Grant one of the stones.  They look at each other in 
	amazement.

	As before, when they get excited, they talk right over each 
	other.

				GRANT
		Elm that's it, it explains the periodicity, the - -

				ELLIE
		- - the undigested state of the berries because it's - -

				GRANT
		- - totally incidental
			(or)
		unrelated to the feeding pattern - -

				TIM
		What are you guys saying?

				ELLIE
			(turning to Tim)
		It's simple, see.  Some animals like her, don't have 
		teeth - -

				GRANT
		- - like birds - -

				ELLIE
		- - like birds.  What happen is, they swallow the stones 
		and hold them in a muscular sack in their stomachs - -

				GRANT
		- - a gizzard - -

				ELLIE
		- - which is called a gizzard, and it helps them mash
		their food, but what happens after a while - -

				GRANT
		- - what happens is that after a while, the stones get  
		smooth, every six weeks, so the animal regurgitates them 
		- -

				ELLIE
			(for Tim)
		- - barfs them up - -

				GRANT
		- - and swallows fresh ones.

				ELLIE
		And when she swallows the stones, she swallows the 
		poison berries too.  That's what makes her sick.
			(impressed)
		Good work Tim.

	She looks at Grant pointedly.  Tim looks up at Grant too, 
	smiling from ear to ear.  Grant GRUNTS, not so easily convinced.

	THUNDER rumbles as the storm overhead is about to bust loose.  
	GENNARO, scared of more than one thing now, puts his foot down.

				GENNARO
		Doctors, if you please - - I have to insist we get 
		moving.

				ELLIE
	Oh, you know, if it's alright, I'd like to stay with Dr. 
	Harding and finish with the trike.  Is that okay?

				HARDING
		Sure.  I've got a gas powered jeep.  I can drop her at 
		the visitor's center before I make the boat with the 
		others.

				ELLIE
			(to Grant)
		I'll catch up with you.  You can go with the others.

				GRANT
		Are you sure?

				ELLIE
		I'll just finish.  Yeah, I want to finish.

	There is a lightning flash now, with a tooth-rattling 
	THUNDERCLAP right on its heels.

				GENNARO
		Now.

	Grant turns and follows the others, Lex right in his tracks.  
	Ellie and Harding go back to the triceratops, which is starting to come 
	back to life.

	As Grant reaches the Explorer, he turns back for one last look 
	at Ellie.  He raises his hand to wave, but she is turned the other way.  
	Feeling silly, he drops his hand and goes into the woods.  Just as he 
	does, Ellie turns and waves to him, but with his back turned, he misses 
	it too.

	In this way, they say goodbye.

	BACK AT THE CARS,

	as the reflections of the GROUP approach, the first raindrops 
	fall on the windshields of the tour vehicles.  They're big, fat drops, 
	and they kick up little clouds of dust as they SMACK into the glass.
	
	It's going to be a hell of a storm.


45	OMITTED


46	EXT	PARK	DUSK

	It's near dark now.  The wind has whipped up, and the trees are 
	swaying.


47	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DUSK

	HAMMOND is with RAY ARNOLD, staring at the video screens.

				ARNOLD
		I found a way to re-route through the program.  I'm 
		turning the cars around in the rest area loop.

				HAMMOND
		Rotten luck, this storm.  Get my grandchildren on the 
		radio will you?  I don't want them to worry about a wee 
		bit of rain.

	Arnold reaches for the hand microphone.

	ACROSS THE ROOM,

	DENNIS NEDRY, sweat forming on his upper lip now, is staring at 
	his video monitor.  The supply boat is still docked on the island 
	shore, but is now being buffeted by heavy waves.  Nedry whispers 
	sharply into the phone, arguing with the MATE of the ship again, who he 
	can see on the video monitor.

				MATE
		There's nothing I can do!  If the Captain says we gotta 
		go, we gotta go!

				NEDRY
		No, no, listen to me.  You've got to give me this time.  
		I did a test run on this thing and it took me twenty 
		minutes.  I thought I could do it in fifteen - - you've 
		got to give me fifteen minutes.

				MATE
		No promises!  No promises!

				NEDRY
		I'll be there in ten!

	Arnold SNAPS a button on his console.

				ARNOLD
		Visitor vehicles are on their way back to the garage.

				HAMMOND
		So how much for our first tour.  Two no-shows and one 
		sick triceratops.

				ARNOLD
		It could have been worse, John.  It could have been a 
		lot worse.

	Dennis Nedry stands up.

	He's shaking in his shoes, but trying like hell to be casual.

				NEDRY
		Anybody want a Coke?  Anybody what some from the 
		machines?  Or a soda or something?  I had too many 
		sweets.
			(or)
		I thought I'd get something sweet.

	Hammond and Arnold shake their heads.  Nedry starts to leave, 
	then turns back with an afterthought that is so rehearsed its almost 
	obvious.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Oh, I finished de-bugging the phones, but the system's 
		compiling for eighteen minutes, or twenty.  So, some
		minor systems may go on and off for a while.  There's 
		nothing to worry about.  Simple thing....

				HAMMOND
		Okay, okay, okay, okay, that's enough!  Ahh!

	Nedry turns, stretches one finger out to his screen, and selects 
	an option.

	"EXECUTE."

	At the same time, he presses the start button on his digital 
	stopwatch he holds in his hand.  A digital clock on the computer screen 
	starts to tick down from sixty seconds , and a musical clock starts to 
	sound too - - something like the "Jeopardy" theme.

	He starts to leave - - but returns when he remembers the shaving 
	cream can.  He grabs it and leaves.


48	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT

	Night was completely fallen now, and the rain has started.  It's 
	a tropical storm, the rain falling in drenching sheets on the roofs and 
	hoods of the Explorers, which are making their way slowly back to the 
	visitor's center.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

	GRANT and MALCOLM are alone.  Grant is staring out the window, 
	lost in his thoughts.

				GRANT
		You got any kids?

				MALCOLM
		Me?  Oh, hell yes.  Three.
			(glowing)
		I love 'em.  I love kids.  Anything at all can and does 
		happen.

	He takes a flask from jacket pocket and unscrews the top.  His 
	expression darkens.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Same with wives, for that matter.

				GRANT
		You're married?

				MALCOLM
		Occasionally.  Always on the lookout for the future ex-
		Mrs. Malcolm.


49	INT	FERTILIZATION LAB	NIGHT

	DENNIS NEDRY, waits outside the silver door marked "EMBRYONIC 
	COLD STORAGE," staring at the digital stopwatch in his hand.

				NEDRY
		Two - - one - -

	On cue, the security lock panel goes dark and the door CLUNKS 
	ajar.

	IN THE COOLER,

	Nedry hurries in and flips open the hatch on the bottom of the 
	shaving cream can, revealing slotted compartments inside.  He goes to 
	the rack of dozens of thin glass slides.  A sign says "VIABLE EMBRYOS - 
	- HANDLE WITH EXTREME CARE!"
	
	He takes the slides out of the rack one by one.  They're labeled 
	- - "STEGOSAURUS", "APATOSAURUS", "TYRANNOSAURUS REX" - - and puts them 
	into the can.


50	INT	CONTROL ROOM	NIGHT

	ARNOLD is staring at his terminal, puzzled.  On the screen, 
	glowing red and blue lines are blinking off, in succession..

				ARNOLD
		What?

	HAMMOND comes up behind him, as does ROBERT MULDOON.

				HAMMOND
		What?

				ARNOLD
		The door security systems are shutting down.

				HAMMOND
		Well, Nedry said a few systems would go off-line, didn't 
		he?


51


THRU	OMITTED


52


53	INT	REAR CAR	NIGHT

	GRANT and MALCOLM still wait in their car.  They don't notice, 
	but the video screen in the middle of their front console suddenly goes 
	black.

	Malcolm continues their conversation.

				MALCOLM
		By the way, Dr. Sattler - she's not like, uh, available, 
		is she? - -

				GRANT
		Why?

				MALCOLM
		Why?  Oh, I'm sorry.  Are you two, uh - - are?  I wish 
		you the best luck.

	The cars jerk to a stop.  The lights in the vehicles and along 
	the road go out, plunging them into blackness.  Grant jerks his hands 
	away from the steering column, immediately assuming it's his fault.

				GRANT
		What'd I touch?!

				MALCOLM
		You haven't touched
			(or)
		didn't touch anything.  We're stopping.
			(or)
		We've stopped.

				GRANT
		I must've touched something.  This happens all the time.  
		It must be my fault.  Machines hate me.

				MALCOLM
		Machines hate you?

				GRANT
		Yeah, they hate me.

				MALCOLM
		You want to talk about this?

				GRANT
		No.


54	EXT	JURASSIC PARK	NIGHT

	Nedry's jeep SPLASHES up to the giant gates that lead into 
	Jurassic Park.  NEDRY jumps out and hurries to the control panel on the 
	side of the cement supports.

	He FLICKS a switch and gates CLICK unlocked.

	He jumps back in the car and noses into the gates, shoving them 
	open far enough to drive through.

	He ROARS into the park grounds


55	EXT	CONTROL ROOM	NIGHT

	RAY ARNOLD stares at his terminal, aghast, as row upon row of 
	colored lights crawls off on his screen.

				ARNOLD
		Woah, woah, woah, what the hell, what the hell?

				HAMMOND
		What now?

				ARNOLD
		Fences are failing, all over the park!  A few minor 
		systems, he said!

				HAMMOND
			(to Muldoon, pissed)
		Find Nedry!  Check the vending machines!

				ARNOLD
	The monitors are failing.

	Muldoon heads for the door just as all the video monitors in the 
	control room go out with a faint electronic ZIP.

	The three of them freeze for a moment, looking at each other.  
	The tension in the room goes up a notch.

				HAMMOND
			(to Arnold)
		Use Nedry's terminal.  Get it all back on.  He can de-
		bug later.

	ARNOLD pushes off on the floor and whizzes over to Nedry's 
	master terminal in his chair.  With one stroke of his arm, he brushes 
	all the loose junk off Nedry's station - junk food, soda cans, torn out 
	magazine pages - - and tries to work.

				ARNOLD
		God, look at this workstation.

	The "Jeopardy"-type music is playing a little faster now.

	Muldoon steps forward, growing alarmed.

				MULDOON
		The raptor fences aren't out, are they?

				ARNOLD
			(checks)
		No, they're still on.

				HAMMOND
		Why the hell would he turn the others off?!


56	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT

	A wire mesh fence in front of us has a very clear sign:

	DANGER!  ELECTRIFIED FENCE!
	This Door Cannot Be Opened
	When Fence is Armed!

	A hand reaches out, grabs the fence by the bare wire, flips a 
	latch, and shoves the door open.  No sparks fly.

	DENNIS NEDRY runs from the fence back to his jeep, drops it in 
	gear, and tears off down the park road.  The rain is absolutely flowing 
	down now, the road is rapidly turning to mud.

	IN THE JEEP,
	
	Nedry can barely see through the windshield.  He's driving as 
	fast as possible, checking his watch every few seconds.
	
	He leans forward, squinting to see through  the windshield, 
	wiping off the condensation with his free hand.  A fork in the road 
	rushes into view.  He jumps on the brakes - - to late.  The jeep 
	careens into a signpost.

				NEDRY
		Shit!

	He throws the door open and hurries to the fallen sign:  "To The 
	Docks".  He props it up - the directional arrow swings hopelessly on a 
	nail.  He clenches his jaws and growls.

	Soaked, Nedry stomps back to his car.

	Although he doesn't look too convinced, he drops the car in gear 
	and speeds off to the left.


57	EXT	CONTROL ROOM	NIGHT

	HAMMOND still hovers over ARNOLD's shoulder while he works at 
	Nedry's terminal.  Arnold MUTTERS to himself as he tries another 
	command.

				ARNOLD
		- - access main program grid - -

	He punches a button, but a BUZZER sounds and a little cartoon 
	image of Nedry appears on the screen and waves its little finger 
	disapprovingly.

				CARTOON NEDRY
		"You didn't say the magic word!"

				ARNOLD
			(livid)
		Please, God damn it!  I hate this hacker crap!

	He SMACKS the top of the monitor, furious.  The game show music 
	plays still faster.

				HAMMOND
		Call Nedry's people in Cambridge!

	Arnold whisks across the floor in his chair and snatches up the 
	nearest phone.  He punches for an outside line.

				ARNOLD
		Phones are out too.

				HAMMOND
		Where did the vehicles stop?


58	EXT	TYRANNOSAUR PADDOCK	NIGHT

	BAAA!  The goat that was brought up from the underground earlier 
	is still tethered in the same place, BLEATING in the pouring rain

	The two explorers sit still in the middle of the road.  A man's 
	form races back from the front car to the rear car.

	IN THE REAR CAR,

	GRANT, soaking wet, gets back into the care and closes the door 
	behind him.  MALCOLM turns to him.

				GRANT
		Their radio's out too.  Gennaro said to stay put.

				MALCOLM
		The kids okay?

				GRANT
		Well, I didn't ask.  Why wouldn't they be?

				MALCOLM
		Kids get scared.

				GRANT
		What's to be scared about?  It's just a little hiccup in 
		the power.

				MALCOLM
		I didn't say I was scared.

				GRANT
		I didn't say you were scared.

				MALCOLM
		I know.

				GRANT
		Fine.

	Malcolm turns and looks out at the driving rain, and the fence 
	that stands between them and the tyrannosaur paddock.  He is scared.


59	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	GENNARO, LEX, and TIM wait, bored.  The rain drums on the roof 
	monotonously.  Tim is upside down in the front seat.  Lex pushes his 
	legs up, and he swings them down.

				TIM
		Up and down, up and down!

				GENNARO
			(sotto)
		I can't believe we invited Ian Malcolm.

				TIM
		People were gettin' bloody noses - - things on your head 
		- - aneurisms - -

				LEX
			(a little dreamy)
		I think Dr. Grant is really - - smart.

				GENNARO
		How he'll write a butch of (letters) papers, go on Larry 
		King Live, say we're irresponsible - -

	Tim climbs into the back seat.  Lex hits him with her hat as he 
	moves by her.

				LEX
		Don't scare me.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -????- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

	Tim finds something under the seat and sits up abruptly, holding 
	what looks like a heavy-duty pair of safety goggles.

				GENNARO
		Hey!  Where did you find those things?

				TIM
		In a box under my seat.

				GENNARO
		Are they heavy?

				TIM
		Yeah.

				GENNARO
		Then they're expensive.  Put them back.
	
	He leans back and closes his eyes.  Tim ignores him and puts on 
	the goggles.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

	Tim stares out the back window of the Explorer with Grant and 
	Malcolm in it, behind them.  The image is bright fluorescent green.

				TIM
		Oh, cool!  Night vision!

	As Tim watches, the door of the rear Explorer opens, and a hand 
	reaches out, holding an empty canteen out to catch some rain water.


60	IN THE REAR CAR

	Grant pulls the canteen back in, closes the door, and takes a 
	drink.  He and Malcolm wait.

61	IN THE FRONT CAR

	Tim continues to stare out of the back window with the goggles.  
	He swings his legs - - but suddenly stops.  He feels something.  He 
	pulls off the goggles and turns back.  He moves into the back seat with 
	Lex who is tapping her hat, and reaches forward to still her hand.

	BOOM.  BOOM.  BOOM.

				TIM
		Did you feel that?
			(or)
		Can you feel that?

	She don't answer.

	Tim leans over to the front passenger seat and looks at the two 
	plastic cups of water that sit in the recessed holes on the dashboard.  
	As he watches, the water in the glasses vibrates, making concentric 
	circles - -

	- - then it stops - -
	
	- - and then it vibrates again.  Rhythmically.

	Like from footsteps.

	BOOM.  BOOM.  BOOM.

				GENNARO
			(not entirely convinced)
		What is that?  M-Maybe it's the power trying to come 
		back on.

	Tim jumps into the back seat and puts the goggles on again.

				LEX
		What is that?

				GENNARO
		What is what?

	Tim turns and looks out the side window.  He can see the area 
	where the goat is tethered.  Or was tethered.  The chain is still 
	there, but the goat is gone.

	BANG!
	
	They all jump, and Lex SCREAMS as something hits the Plexiglas 
	sunroof of the Explorer, hard.  They look up.

	It's a bloody, disembodied goat leg.

				GENNARO
		Oh, Jesus.  Jesus.
	
	Tim whips around to look out the side window again.  His mouth 
	pops open, but no sound comes out.  Through the goggles, he sees an 
	animal claw, a huge one, gripping the cables of the "electrified" 
	fence.

	Tim whips the goggles off and presses forward, against the 
	window.  He looks up, up, than cranes his head back further, to look 
	out the sunroof.  Past the goat's leg, he can see - -

	- - Tyrannosaurus rex.  It stands maybe twenty-five feet high, 
	forty feet long from nose to tail, with an enormous, boxlike head that 
	must be five feet long by itself.  The remains of the goat hang out of 
	the rex's mouth.  It tilts its head back and swallows the animal in one 
	big gulp.

	Gennaro can't even speak.  His hand claws for the door handle, 
	he shoulders it open, and takes off, out of the car.

				LEX
			(freaking out)
		He left us!  He left us alone!  Dr. Grant!  Dr. Grant!  
		He left us!  He left us!


62	ON THE ROAD,

	Gennaro runs away, as fast as he can, right past the second car, 
	towards a cement block outhouse twenty or thirty yards away.

	He reaches it, ducks inside, and pulls the door after him - -

	- - but there's no latch, just a round hole in the unfinished 
	door.  Gennaro backs into a stall, frantic.

	The whole bathroom begins to shake.

63	IN THE REAR CAR,

	Grant and Malcolm turn in the direction Gennaro went.
	
				GRANT
		Where does he think he's going?
	
				MALCOLM
		When you gotta go, you gotta go.

	Malcolm looks the other way, out the passenger window.  As he 
	watches, the fence begins to buckle, its post collapsing into 
	themselves, the wires SNAPPING free.

				MALCOLM
		What was that all about?  - -

	Grant now turns and watches as, ahead of them, the "DANGER!" 
	sign SMACKS down on the hood of the first Explorer.  The entire fence 
	is coming down, the posts collapsing, the cables SNAPPING as - -

	- - the T-rex chews its way through the barrier.

	They watch in horror as the T-rex steps over the ruined barrier 
	and into the middle of the park road.  It just stands there for a 
	moment, swinging its head from one vehicle to the other.

64	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	The rex strides around to the side of the car and peers down, 
	from high above.  Tim leaps into the front seat and pulls the driver's 
	door shut.  Both kids are terrified, breathing hard, unable to speak.

				TIM
		Please!  Please!

65	IN THE REAR CAR,

				MALCOLM
		Boy, do I hate being right all the time.

				GRANT
		Look at that!

	The T-rex turns and strides quickly back towards them.  It 
	circles, slowly, bending over to look in at them through the window.

	Grant and Malcolm sit trembling in the front seat, watching as 
	the giant legs stride past their windows.

				GRANT
		(a quivery whisper)
		Keep absolutely still - - it's vision's based on 
		movement!

				MALCOLM
		You're sure?!

				GRANT
			(pause)
		Relatively.

	Malcolm freezes as the rex bends down and peers right in through 
	his window.  The dinosaur's giant, yellowing eye is only slightly 
	smaller than the entire pane of glass

	The T-rex pulls away slightly, then reaches down and BUMPS the 
	car with its snout, rocking it.

66	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	Lex is rummaging around in the back cargo area, looking for 
	something, anything.  She finds a flashlight.

67	ON THE ROAD,

	The front car lights up from within as Lex switches on the 
	flashlight.

	The dinosaur raises its head.  It turns slowly from the second 
	car to the first car, drawn by the light.  Making a decision, it 
	strides over to the first vehicle.  FAST.

68	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	Tim and Lex can only stare out of the windows as the T-rex 
	reaches their car and starts to circle it.

	The rex bends down and looks in through the front windshield, 
	then the side window.  Tim is eye to eye with the thing for a second, 
	then the dinosaur raises its head up, above the car.

				LEX
		I'm sorry - - I'm sorry - -

				TIM
		Turn it off, Lex!  Turn it off!

	Tim climbs over the seat and joins Lex.

				TIM (cont'd)
		Where is the button then?

				LEX
		I don't know, I don't know.  I'm sorry - -

				TIM
		Why did you do this?

				LEX
		I don't know!  I'm sorry!

	The Kids look up, through the sunroof, as the head goes higher, 
	and higher, and higher, and then the rex turns, looks straight down at 
	them through the sunroof, opens its mouth wide and - -

	- - ROARS.

	The windows RATTLE, Lex SCREAMS, the flashlight goes on again, 
	and the tyrannosaur strikes.

	SMASH!  The thing's head its the plastic sunroof, knocking the 
	whole frame right out of the roof of the car and down into the vehicle.  
	The bubble falls down onto Tim and Lex, trapping them, and the animal 
	lunges down, through the hole, SNAPPING at them.

	The Plexiglas holds, though and protects Tim and Lex even as it 
	pins them to the seats.  The T-rex continues to push down, and the 
	glass GROANS, crack lines racing across it.

	Tim, whose feet were caught above him, pushes back, only an inch 
	of glass between him and the dinosaur's teeth.

69	IN THE REAR CAR,

	Grant and Malcolm watch in horror as the dinosaur claws at the 
	side of the vehicle with one of its powerful thigh legs.

	It pushes, starting to tip the car over.

				MALCOLM
		Oh my God!

				GRANT
		We gotta do something.

				MALCOLM
		What?  What can we do?

				GRANT
		There's gotta be something - -

	Grant looks around, climbs over the seat.  He tears apart the 
	back area, searching - and finally finds a metal case.  He opens it, 
	finding flares.  He grabs one and moves quickly back to the driver's 
	seat and opens the door.

	Malcolm grabs a flare, too.

70	IN THE FRONT CAR,

	the glass windows SHATTER, the Kids are thrown to the side, and 
	the Explorer tilts.

	The rex bends down and nudges the car with its head, rolling it 
	up on its side.  Tim and Lex tumble around.

71	ON THE ROAD

	the T-rex starts to nudge the Explorer toward the barrier.  Over 
	the barrier, there is a gentle terraced area at one side where the rex 
	emerged from, but the car isn't next to that, it's next to a sharp 
	precipice, representing a fifty or sixty foot drop.

	The car, upside down now, is pushed near the edge.

	The rex towers over the car.  Like a dog, its puts one foot on 
	the chassis and tears a the undercarriage with its jaws.

	Biting at anything it can get a hold of, it rips the rear axle 
	free, tosses it aside, and bites into a tire.

	The tire EXPLODES, startling the animal.

72	INSIDE THE CAR,

	Tim and Lex are trapped inside the rapidly flattening car.  As 
	the frame continues to buckle, they crawl toward the open rear window, 
	the car collapsing behind them.  Mud and rain water pout into what 
	little space there is left.

	Tim is ahead, nearing the back window, when there is a CRUNCH 
	and a seat comes down, pinning him.

73	ON THE ROAD,

	the dinosaur backs up, dragging the Explorer, swinging it left 
	and right.  It seems ready to fling it over the edge.

	Grant gets out of his car.  He's holding the flare in one hand, 
	which he pulls the top off of.  Bright flames shoot out the end of it.

				GRANT
		Hey!  Hey!  Over here!

	The T-rex turns and looks at him
	
	Grant waves the flare slowly in front of him from side to side.  
	The T-rex follows his moving arm, eyes locked on the flare.  Grant 
	looks over to the wall, and tosses the flare over the edge of the 
	barrier.  The rex lunges after it - -

	Unclear with Grant's plan, Malcolm leaps out of the car and 
	tries to scare up the T-rex's attention with his own newly lit flare.  
	He begins to wave it at the animal.  Grant sees him - -

				GRANT
		Ian!  Freeze!  Freeze!  Get rid of the flare!

				MALCCOLM
		Get the kids!

	Malcolm inches back slowly, then takes off, running for his life 
	down the road.  He runs to the cement block outhouse Gennaro went into 
	earlier.

	The T-rex sees the movement.  It whirls and takes off after 
	Malcolm, fast.

	Malcolm runs as fast as he can, approaching the outside just 
	steps ahead of the T-rex

	But not far enough ahead.  Without even slowing down, the rex 
	leans forward and flicks Malcolm into the air with its snout.

	It's just a nudge a for the rex, but it sends Malcolm sailing 
	right through a wooden portion of the wall, and into the building.


74	IN THE RESTROOM

	Gennaro, who cowers in a corner, SCREAMS as teh head of the T-
	rex EXPLODES through the front of the building, sending chunks of 
	cement flying in all directions inside.  The roof collapses; Gennaro 
	tries to protect himself from the falling junk.


75	ON THE ROAD

	Grant gets on his feet and watches as the T-rex noses around in 
	the rubble.

	It seems to find something.  It lunges, and Grant can hear 
	Gennaro SCREAMING, the sound piercing - -

	- - until it abruptly stops.

	Grant scrambles over to the car.

				GRANT
		Tim!  Lex!

				LEX
		Dr. Grant!  Dr. Grant!

	He lays on the ground, looking inside, and sees Lex staring up 
	at him, conscious, her face covered in mud.

				GRANT
		Are you okay?  Can you move?
			(calling into the car)
		Tim!  Are you okay?

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -VERSION 1- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

				GRANT
		Tim, are you okay?

				TIM
		I'm stuck.  The seat's got my feet!

				GRANT
		Tim, I'll come back for you.  I'll get Lex out first.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -VERSION 2- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

				LEX
		He's knocked out!  He's knocked out!  Dr. Grant!  Dr. 
		Grant!  Daddy, daddy!

				GRANT
		Let's get you out.

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

	Grant reaches in and drags her out.
	
				GRANT
		Are you okay?  Good girl.

	Grant tries to find Tim
	
				GRANT (cont'd)
		Tim?  Tim?

	Lex, staring over his shoulder, SCREAMS.  Grant whirls, covering 
	her mouth at the same time.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Shhh!  Don't move!  It can't see us if we don't move.

	Lex looks at him like he's crazy, but freezes.  They wait.

	BOOM!  A big T-rex foot print smacks down in front of them as 
	the dinosaurs approaches the car again.  It leans down, right past 
	them, and SNIFFS the car, ragged bits of flesh and clothing hanging 
	from its teeth.

	Not finding anything, the dinosaur swings its head away, 
	SNORTING loudly through its nose.  Grant's hat flies off his head. 
	Still, he doesn't move.

	The rex walks to the back of the car.  It bends down.

	WHAP!  The car spins as it is pushed from behind by the rex.  
	Grant and Lex are pushed in front of it, helpless.  They scramble 
	around on their knees, trying to keep ahead of the car, which the rex 
	is now pushing even closer to the edge of the barrier.

	Grant and Lex crawl quickly, but the car is moving faster, 
	catching up on them.


76	INSIDE THE CAR

	Tim awakens and SCREAMS.  He tries to untangle himself.


77	ON THE ROAD,

	the T-rex looms over Lex and Grant, who are trapped between the 
	car and the sixty foot drop.


78	INSIDE THE CAR,

	the rex bends down and sees Tim.  Tim backs away, furiously, but 
	there's almost no room to move in there.  The rex opens its mouth wide
	and stretches its tongue into the car.

	Tim screams and kicks as the tongue tries to wrap around him.  
	But it fails, and withdraws from the car.


79	ON THE ROAD,

	the T-rex still tries to get to Grant and Lex, pushing the car, 
	spinning on its roof.  Grant and Lex scramble, trying to avoid being 
	caught by the T-rex and crushed by the car.

				GRANT
		This way!

	The back of the car almost crushes them against the barrier - -

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Get back!

	They move, as the rex continues to move the car towards the 
	edge.  Grant finally gets on the wall, Lex follows.

	The T-rex ROARS in frustration.  It bends down for one final 
	lunge at the car.

	Grant sees it coming.  He grabs one of the dangling fence cables 
	on the other side of the barrier.

				GRANT
		Grab a hold of me!

	She wraps her arm around his neck.  He scrambles to the edge of 
	the barrier, and starts to climb down.

				LEX
			(screaming)
		Timmy!  Timmy!

	The cable is slick with rain, and it's all Grant can do to hang 
	on as he and Lex slide rapidly down.  Above them, the vehicle is now 
	teetering over the edge, threatening to drop right on top of them if 
	they didn't hurry.

	Grant GASPS, as Lex has unwittingly started to choke him as she 
	holds on for dear life.

				GRANT
		You're choking me!

	The car GROANS, nearly over the edge now.  Grant looks to the 
	side.  There are other cables, out of the line of the car's impending 
	drop.  His feet scrambling along the concrete wall, Grant tries to 
	swing over towards one.

				GRANT
		Grab a wire!

	But he falls short.  His momentum carries them back the other 
	way, but on the second swing Lex manages to grab hold of the second 
	cable.

				LEX
		I got it!
	
	The car falls.  Lex and Grant are clear by inches, clinging to 
	the second cable.

				LEX
		Timmy!

	The car CRUNCHES into the leafy top of a tree, resting on its 
	roof some fifteen feet below them.

	The T-rex stares down at them, but they are safely out of its 
	reach.

	It ROARS once more, in a final fit of frustration, turns - -


A80	INT	CONTROL ROOM	NIGHT

	JOHN HAMMOND is lived

				HAMMOND
		I will kill Nedry.  I will kill him.

	Muldoon bursts through the door.

				HAMMOND
			(to Muldoon)
		Well?

				MULDOON
		There's no sign of him anywhere.

	The game show music is louder and faster now, very annoying.

				HAMMOND
		Ray will you please switch off 
			(or)
		stop that music?!

	RAY ARNOLD's cigarette is practically burning his lips, down to 
	almost nothing in his mouth.  He hovers over NEDRY's computer terminal, 
	which is a mass of incomprehensible commands that scroll by quickly as 
	he futilely examines each one of them.

	MULDOON paces.  ELLIE stares at Arnold in amazement.

				ELLIE
	Are we getting anywhere with these procedures of yours?  
	I mean, what's hanging us up?

				ARNOLD
	I ran a key check on every stroke Nedry entered today.  
	It's all pretty standard stuff, until this one - -

				ELLIE
			(stands, joins the group at the computer)
		What one?

	He points to his computer screen, to a specific series of 
	commands.  The others crowed over his shoulder and stare at the screen.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		"Keycheck /space -o keycheck off safety -o."  He's 
		turning the safety systems off.  He doesn't want 
		anybody to see what he's about to do.  Now look at this 
		next entry, it's the kicker.  "Wht.rbt.obj."  Whatever 
		it did, it did it all.  But with Keycheck off, the 
		computer didn't file the keystrokes.  Only way to find 
		them now is to search the computer's lines of code one 
		by one.

				ELLIE
		How many lines of code are there?

				ARNOLD
		Uh - - about two million.

				ELLIE
		Two million - - great.  That would help.
			(or)
		Oh good, that'll take no time.

				HAMMOND
		Robert - - I wonder if perhaps you would be kind
			(or)
		good enough to take a gas jeep and bring back my 
		grandchildren.

				MULDOON
		Sure.

				ELLIE
		I'm going with him.

	They head for the door.  Hammond turns, staring out the windows 
	at the front of the control room.  He's gone pale, and he's sweating, 
	wrapped up in million thoughts.  Behind him, Ray Arnold's voice calls 
	to him, but he doesn't hear it.

				ARNOLD
		John - - John - -

	Hammond leans on his cane, and for the first time he looks like 
	he's actually using it.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		John.

	Hammond turns, finally hearing him.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		I can't get Jurassic Park back on line without Dennis 
		Nedry.


80	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT

	As the rain continues to pour down, a gas-powered jeep ROARS 
	down another park road.


81	INT	JEEP	NIGHT

	DENNIS NEDRY drives the jeep as fast as he can in the 
	treacherous conditions.  He MUTTERS to himself, shaking his head.
	
				NEDRY
		Shoulda been there by now - - shoulda been there - -

	He hauls it around a corner and looks down, checking his watch.  
	When he looks back up, his eyes go wide.

	There's a white wood guard rail fence, right in front of him.  
	He stands on the brakes as hard as he can.  The jeep fishtails, 
	skidding out of control in the mud towards the fence.
	
	Nedry hauls the wheel hard to the side to try to control the 
	skid, but the jeep skids off the road, going halfway over the muddied 
	embankment.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		God damn it!

	He drops the car in reverse and hits the gas.  The wheels spin, 
	sending mud flying everywhere, but the jeep goes nowhere, just digs in 
	further.

	Nedry can't believe it.  Frustrated, he gets out of the jeep.  
	He stops suddenly - he can see another park road, down the sloping 
	embankment, about twenty feet below.

	There is a large sign alongside the road.  Nedry leans forward 
	excitedly to get a better look.  It reads "TO EAST DOCK."  He scrambles 
	to the front of the jeep.
	
	ON THE HILLSIDE
	
	Nedry CRANKS a winch its coil on the front end of the jeep.

				NEDRY
			(mumbling to himself)
		No problem.  Winch this sucker off the thing - - tie it 
		do a thing - - pull it down the thing - - and pull it 
		back up.

	He loses his balance and slips - falling back on his rear.  He 
	slides down the muddy embankment, across the road below.  Pissed, he 
	gets to his knees and searches for his glasses.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Where are my glasses?  I can afford new ones.

	He stands and grabs the winch, and goes to a sturdy-looking tree 
	on the other side.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		You can make it!

	From the distance, there is a soft HOOTING sound.  There's some 
	movement in the bushes - Nedry looks around for the source of the sound 
	and movement.  He doesn't find it.  He nervously checks his watch and 
	goes back to the winch, but faster.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		No problem - - pop this thing right down - -

	The HOOTING comes again and Nedry turns - again, nothing.

	A figure ducks around the tree and pops out on the other side, 
	HOOTING playfully.

	Nedry looks around one side of the tree - nothing.  It pops up 
	on the other side, HOOTING again.  And Nedry looks again.  Nothing.  It 
	seems like a friendly game of hide-and-seek.  But Nedry begins to get 
	rattled.

				NEDRY
	That's nice.  Gotta go. I'm getting out of here.  C'mon 
	you can make it!

	He secures the winch and starts across the road, back up the 
	embankment.  He freezes, as he feels something behind him.  He turns 
	around slowly and sees:

	A dilophosaur.  It stands only about four feet high, its spotted 
	like an owl, and has a brilliant colored crest that flanks its head.  
	It doesn't look very dangerous.  In fact, it's kind of cute.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Oh.  Uh - - nice boy.  Nice boy.  Okay. Run along.  I 
		don't have anything for you!  Go on!  	Go home!  Dinner 
		time!  Are you hungry?  They'll feed you!  Go, boy.  
		Girl.  Whatever.

	The dilophosaur just stares at Nedry, tilting its head 
	curiously.  Nedry looks around on the ground and finds a stick.  He 
	picks it up and chucks it at the thing.  He throws it as far as he can.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Nice juicy stick!  Fetch!

	The dilophosaur gets into the spirit of the game, but not the 
	object.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Lame brain!  What's the matter with you?
			(or)
		What's the matter with you?

	He shakes his head and starts back towards the jeep, muttering 
	to himself.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
	Walnut brain...extinct kangaroo...hope I run over you on 
	the way down - -	

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -??-OR-??- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		Walnut brain...extinct kangaroo...hope I run over you on 
		the way down - -

	He's near the top when the dilophosaur suddenly hops out right 
	in front him, startling him.  Nedry loses his balance and falls back, 
	right on his rear.  He gets to his feet, angry.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		I said - -

	He picks up a stick and chucks it at the thing.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		- - beat it!

	- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		What are you do - -

	The animals HISSES.  The brightly colored fan around its neck 
	flares wildly, two bulbous sacs on either side of its neck inflate.  It 
	rears its head back again - -

	- - and it SPITS.

	SPLAT!  A big glob of something wet SMACKS into the middle of 
	Nedry's chest.  He reaches down and touches the goo that's dribbling 
	down his slicker.

				NEDRY (cont'd)
		That's disgusting!
	
	SPLAT!  Another glob of goo SMACKS into the highlight, right 
	next to Nedry's head.

	He stands up.  A look of confusion crosses his face.  He lifts 
	his right hand, the one that he touched the spit with, and looks at it 
	strangely, flexing it.

	POW!  This time the lugie hits Nedry right smack in the face.  
	He SCREAMS and rubs it away, frantically.

	Because it hurts.  Like hell.  Nedry falls back, clawing at this 
	eyes, in excruciating pain.  He pulls his hands away, starting to 
	hyperventilate.  He flails his arms in front of him, blinking a mile a 
	minute, but blinded.

	He staggers forward, to try to get into the jeep.  He gets the 
	door open, but SMACKS his head on the door frame and collapses.

	The can of shaving cream flies out of Nedry's jacket pocket - - 
	and tumbles into runoff water, down the muddy hillside.  Nedry gets to 
	his feet again and staggers in the general direction of the jeep.  He 
	reaches the open door and feels his way in.  He SLAMS the door.

	There is another HOOT.  From inside the jeep.

	Nedry turns and SCREAMS.  The dilophosaur is right there, in the 
	passengers seat.  It HISSES louder than before, its crest fans angrily, 
	vibrating, reaching a crescendo - -
	
	- - and the thing pounces, SLAMMING Nedry back against the 
	driver's window, SHATTERING it.  As Nedry shrieks - -

	Rain and mud wash over the shaving cream can, burying it.


82	OMITTED


83	EXT	PARK GROUNDS	NIGHT

	The rain has all stopped now.  GRANT and LEX are at the bottom 
	of the large barrier leading up to the park road.  Like it or not, 
	they're in the park now, and are surrounded by think jungle foliage on 
	all sides.  They're both beaten up, and Grant's face is covered in 
	blood.
	
	He's bent over a big puddle, splashing water on his face, 
	rinsing the blood off and trying to bring himself to.
	
	Poor Lex is scared as hell.  She stands behind Grant, ramrod 
	straight, her breath coming short, desperate GASPS.  Her eyes are wide, 
	and she doesn't look like she can move.

	As Grant gets rid of the blood, his injury doesn't look so bad, 
	just a gash on his forehead.

	He turns and looks up to the tree the Explorer fell in.  It's 
	stuck there, nose down in the thickest top branches.

	Lex's GASPS are getting louder.  She's terrified.

				GRANT
		Hey, come on, don't - - don't -- don't - - just - -just 
		- - stop, stop.

	He touches her, but it's awfully awkward, more of a pat on the 
	head than anything strong or reassured.

	But she responds to the contact, hurling herself forward and 
	throwing her arms tightly around his waist.  She clamps here, holding 
	on for dear life, SOBBING.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Lex, you gotta be quiet, please.  Stop it.  Shhhhh.

	This seems to quiet her.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Because if we make too much noise, he's going to hear us 
		and come back.

	Lex bursts out crying again, a WAILING scream, nearly hysterical 
	now.  Grant holds her, no idea what to do.  He turns and looks around.

				GRANT (cont'd)
			(a whispered shout)
		Timmy?!  Timmy!

	He hears a CRACKING sound.  He looks up to the tree again.  The 
	Explorer has fallen a few feet lower into the branches.

	Grant looks down at Lex, who is sitting on a rock.

				LEX
		Dad - - Dad - -

				GRANT
	Shhh - - I'm right here, Lex.  I'm going to look after 
	you.  I'm going to help your brother.  I want you to 
	stay here and wait for me, okay?

				LEX
		He left us!  He left us!

				GRANT
		That's not what I'm going to do.  Good!

	Grant walks to the tree.  Lex scampers into the culvert.


84	EXT	TREE	-	NIGHT

	GRANT takes a deep breath. grabs hold of the first branch, and 
	starts his long climb.  Fortunately, it's a good climbing tree, its 
	branches thick and regularly spaced.

	Grant moves at a good pace.  He reaches the car's level, on the 
	driver's side five or six feet to one side of it.

	The car's in rough shape.  It's much thinner that it use to be, 
	its nose completely smashed in, the front wheels driven solidly into a 
	thick branch.  They are what hold it in place.

				GRANT
		Tim?  Tim?

	Grant comes up to the car and looks in.  TIM is huddled on the 
	floor on the passenger side, frightened, hugging his knees to his 
	chest.

	He looks up at Grant with a tear and blood-streaked faced.  His 
	voice is barely audible. 

				TIM
		I threw up.

				GRANT
		That's okay.  Listen, give me your hand.

	Tim doesn't move.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		I won't tell anybody you threw up.  Just give me your 
		hand, okay?

	He reaches out.  Tim reaches too, but they're still about a foot 
	apart.  Grant grabs hold of the steering wheel, to pull himself further 
	in.  The wheel turns.

	On the branch, the front wheel turns, losing a bit of their grip 
	on the thick branch they're resting on.

	Tim and Grant grab hands.  Grant holds on to him, getting an arm 
	securely around his waist.  They climb down.  They stop on a branch.

				GRANT
		Okay, that's not so bad, ah Tim?

				TIM
		Yes it is.

				GRANT
	It's just like coming out of a tree house.  Did your dad 
	ever build you a tree house, Tim, eh?

				TIM
		No.

				GRANT
		Me too.
			(he starts to move down)
		Okay.  Well, the main thing about climbing is never, 
		never look down, never.

				TIM
		This is impossible.  How am I going...I can't make it.  
		This is...it's about fifty feet.

				GRANT
		So am I going to help you with your foot?

				TIM
		What if the car falls?
			(or)
		What if the wheels fall?

	The car GROWNS forward on the branch, which sags in their 
	direction.  They look up.  The car begins to shift dramatically towards 
	them.

				GRANT
		Oh, no!  GO, Tim, go!  Go!

	They climb down, as fast as they can, as the big branch that is 
	supporting the car CREAKS, ready to give way any second.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Faster!  Faster!

	The branch breaks.  Disintegrates, really, and the car falls 
	straight at them.

	Grant and Tim let go of the branch they're on and fall, THUDDING 
	into another branch a few feet down.  The car SMACKS into the bug 
	branch they just vacated, and stops there.

	Grant and Tim are half climbing, half falling down the tree now, 
	slipping on the resin-covered branches, just trying like hell to get 
	out of the way.

	CREEEE-POW!  The second branch breaks, and now the car SMASHES 
	and CRASHES through a network of thinner branches, headed right for 
	them.  It hits open space and goes into free fall.

	Grant turns, and puts up his arms in defense --

	-- and the car stops, SLAMMING into a thick branch just above 
	him.

	Grant looks up, eyeball to eyeball with the front grill.

	The new branch starts to CREAK.

	Grant and Tim basically fall down the rest of the tree, the car 
	BASHING its way through right behind them.  They jump the last six or 
	seven feet and hit the ground, hard.

	Grant grabs Tim and rolls with him, to the side, just as the car 
	SMASHES into the earth, nose first, standing upright that way.
	
	They look up in relief, but the damn thing's still heading for 
	them, now tipping over, falling straight at them, and there's no way 
	they have time to get out of the way this time, so Grant just balls 
	himself up on top of Tim to try to protect him and --

	-- CRASH!  The jeep falls on top of them.  Grant, amazingly 
	unhurt, looks up confused.

	They're inside the jeep again, saved by the hole sunroof.


	CUT TO:


85	EXT	CULVERT	-	NIGHT

	LEX is still in the culvert, terrified, slowly BANGING her head 
	against the wall.

	GRANT is at the mouth of the culvert, carefully studying the 
	rinky-dink map of the park he picked up during the slide show.

				GRANT
		Okay -- okay --

	He's trying to get his bearings from the crude, cartoon-like 
	drawing on the map, but it's tough.

	He looks up, picking a direction, and shoves the map in his 
	pocket decisively.

	He looks back in at Lex.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Lex, you're going to have to get out of there.
			(he walks towards her)
		Hiding isn't a rational solution; we have to improve our 
		situation.

	She doesn't move.  Grant looks at Tim.
	
				GRANT (cont'd)
		Tim's out here.
			(Grant picks Tim up)
		He's okay.

	Still nothing.  Grant tries a new tact.

				GRANT
			(walking away)
		'Course you could just wait in there while we go back 
		and get help.

				TIM
			(following Grant)
		That's a good idea.

				GRANT
		You'll probably be safe enough (alone) on your own --

				TIM
		I doubt it.

				GRANT
		Maybe -- it's hard to say.

				LEX
		Liar!  You said you wouldn't leave!

				GRANT
		I'm trying to use psychology to get you out of the 
		drain, you know!

	She just stares at him like he's nuts.  Tim shakes his head at 
	Grant, as if to say "nice try."  Grant calms his tone.

	- - - - - VERSION 1 - - - - -

				GRANT (cont'd)
		We can't go back the way we came.  What we have is a 
		free-range T-rex on the road.  There's (there are) 
		fences on either side.  If we meet him between here and 
		the lodge, we'd have problems.  But what this means, 
		what this means, is that this whole paddock is empty.  
		It's safe.

				LEX
		It's safe?

				GRANT
		It's safe.

				LEX
		It's safe.

				GRANT
		Go (and) that's the way we're going to go.  What do you 
		say?

				LEX
		Alright.

	- - - - - END - - - - -

	- - - - - VERSION 2 - - - - -

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Alright.  We're just going to walk back home.  Together.

	We walks over to Lex at the culvert and sits across from her.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		But we can't walk back on the road.  There are fences on 
		either side.  And if we meet the Rex between here and 
		the lodge we'd -- have problems.

	Lex covers her ears.  Grant tries to calm her.

				GRANT
		He's probably staked out the road as a feeding ground, 
		which means this whole paddock is empty.  It's safe.  
		It's safe, and that's the way we're going to go.  What 
		do you say?

	- - - - - END - - - - -

	He's spoken calmly and confidently, so Lex crawls out of the 
	culvert and stands next to him.

				GRANT
		Good girl.

	He kisses her hand and helps her crawl out of the culvert.

	Tim and Lex nod, and he starts off in the direction he 
	indicated.  They trail behind him.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Might be kind of slow, but it can't be more than three 
		or four miles.  I'd hoped the rex finished feeding by 
		now, but let's not kid ourselves.  Did you know a 
		carnivore can eat up to 25% of its body weight in 
		(about) one sitting, so he's probably just ready to move 
		on to the main course by now --

	He stops in the middle of the sentence, noticing he's alone.  He 
	turns around.  Now both kids have scampered all the way back into the 
	culvert, terrified.


86	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT

	MULDOON and ELLIE race down the park road in an open-topped jeep 
	like the one Nedry took earlier.  Neither of them speak, they just 
	stare ahead grimly, wondering what they're about to find.

				MULDOON
		There they are!

	They round a corner and come to the top of the hill, where the 
	attack took place.  The jeep skids to a stop and they jump out.

	The road is rutted, muddy mess.  The cement block house is a 
	pile of rubble.  One of the Explorers is gone, the other stands 
	untouched, both doors hanging open.

				ELLIE
		Oh, God.  Where's the other car?

	She runs to the Explorer.  Muldoon follows, looking around.

	AT THE EXPLORER,

	Ellie leans in and looks around.  Nobody's there.  She and 
	Muldoon walk towards the wreckage of the outhouse, calling out:

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		I think it's ahead of us.

				MULDOON
		It could be anywhere.  With the fences out, it can go in 
		and out of any paddock it likes.
	
	They hear a MOANING sound from somewhere in the wreckage of the 
	restroom building.  They rush over to it.

	IAN MALCOLM lies on his back, semiconscious among the twisted 
	wood and cement.

				MULDOON
		It's Malcolm!

	He shines his light along the length of Malcolm's body.  His 
	shirt is soaked with blood, but his right leg is even worse off.  The 
	right ankle it bent outward at a strange angle from his leg, the 
	trousers flattened, soaked with blood.

	Malcolm's belt has been twisted around his thigh.
	
				ELLIE
		He's put a tourniquet on.  Ian!  Ian!

	Malcolm GROANS as she touches him, groggy.

				MALCOLM
		Remind me to talk John for a lovely weekend.

	The T-rex ROARS again.  But closer now.  Ellie and Muldoon look 
	at each other.

				ELLIE
		Can we chance moving him?
	
				MALCOLM
		Please - - chance it.

	Muldoon lays Malcolm as carefully as possible in the back of the 
	jeep.

				MALCOLM
		Where are the kids?

	Ellie looks around.

				ELLIE
		Lex!  Tim!

	She turns and looks back at the empty road.  She's on the verge 
	of tears, but is fighting them back.

				MULDOON
		Dr. Sattler, I've seen a lot of animal attacks.  People 
		just disappear.  No blood, no trace.  	That's the way it 
		happens.

				ELLIE
		No, no, no!

	She walks to the edge of the road, her eyes following the deep 
	ruts the Explorer made when it went over the edge.  Muldoon gets ready 
	to leave.

				MULDOON
		Ellie, com one!!

				ELLIE
		The other car!


87	EXT	CLEARING	NIGHT

	ELLIE's and MULDOON's flashlight beams spray light by the base 
	of the tree.

				MULDOON
		Dr. Grant!

				ELLIE
		Alan!

	They find the wrecked Explorer.  Muldoon peers inside, looking 
	for anything.

				ELLIE
		Do you see anything?

				MULDOON
		I don't know.

	The T-rex ROARS again, closer still

	Ellie nervously goes to the other side of the car and looks in.

				ELLIE
		Alan?!

				MULDOON
		They're not here.

	Ellie desperately searches the ground for any signs of Grant.  
	She finds their footprints.

				ELLIE (O.S.)
		Thank God.


88	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT
		
	MALCOLM, laid out in the back of the jeep, feels something 
	strange.  He looks down, at the one of the T-rex footprints in the 
	road.  It's filled with water.

	The water in the puddle vibrates rhythmically.

	Malcolm's eyes widen.  He looks around, frantically.

				MALCOLM
		Uh - - anybody?  Anybody hear that?


89	EXT	CLEARING	NIGHT

	ELLIE is still looking around, to MULDOON's chagrin.  Her 
	flashlight falls on three sets of footprints in the mud.

				ELLIE
		Look!

	Wit her flashlight, she follows the trail the footprints made.  
	They lead into the jungle and disappear.


90	EXT	PARK ROAD	NIGHT

	MALCOLM's staring , wide-eyed, at the rings in the water, which 
	are getting bigger now.

				MALCOLM
		It's a - - an impact tremor is what it is, it, uh - -

	BOOM.  BOOM.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		I'm fairly alarmed here!

	ELLIE and MALCOLM come up over the embankment, excited.

				MALCOLM
		Gotta move, gotta get out of here.  Let's go - we gotta 
		go, we gotta get out of here, right now!  Go, go!  Let's hurry, let's 
		get out of here!

	They stop talking.  The BOOMING is louder now, and faster.  Much 
	faster.  They look back, over their shoulders.

				ELLIE
		Oh.

	Ellie and Muldoon get into the jeep, Muldoon in the driver's 
	seat.

				MALCOLM
		Move now!  Let's go, let's go, right now, right now!

	The tyrannosaur SMASHES out of the jungle foliage, bursts onto 
	the road, and runs straight at them, moving at least thirty miles an 
	hour.

				MALCOLM
		GOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGOGO!

	Muldoon fumbles for the keys, turns the jeep over, and SLAMS it 
	into gear.  He drops the clutch, hits the gas, and tears ass out of 
	there.

	But the jeep is slow to work through the first few gears.  
	Terrified, Ellie dares to look down, to the side view mirror, which 
	tells her "Objects Are Closer Than They Appear."

	And they sure are.  The T-rex is still gaining on the slowly 
	accelerating jeep.  All three of them stare back at the rex in terror - 
	-

				ELLIE
		Faster, faster!

				MALCOLM
		Must go faster, it's getting closer - must go faster!

				ELLIE
		Faster!  Shit, shit, shit, faster!

				MALCOLM
		Must go faster, go, go.  Open it up, 5th gear, 5th gear!  
		Here it comes!  Stand on it!  Fifth - stand on it, 5th 
		gear, go!

	- - which means they don't see the half-fallen tree branch right 
	in front of them, blocking the path of the road.  Muldoon looks back 
	first, SHOUTS - -

				MULDOON
		DOWN!

	- - they all duck.

	The windshield hits the branch and SHATTERS as the jeep flies 
	ahead, really picking up speed now.

	The T-rex just runs right through the branch, SMASHING it 
	entirely.

	They're bounced around pretty badly.  Malcolm is knocked into 
	the front, and in so doing knocks the gear shift into neutral.  The 
	engine RACES, the T-rex closes in again - -
		
	Losing ground now, the dinosaur makes a final lunge for the jeep 
	and CRUNCHES into the left rear quarter panel - -

				ELLIE
		Faster, faster!

	- - but Muldoon SLAMS it back into gear and guns it.  The T-rex 
	gives up, fading into the distance.

	They drive in silence for a few moments, all scared out of their 
	wits.

				MALCOLM
		Think they'll have that on the tour?


91	EXT PARK GROUND	NIGHT

	GRANT, LEX, and TIM make their way through Jurassic Park.  Far 
	in the distance, there's another ROAR.  Grant hears it, but tries not 
	to show it.

				LEX
		Hear that?
			(or)
		Are you hearing this?

				GRANT
		No, I didn't hear anything.
			(or)
		No, we're okay.

	They keep walking, but now Grant is looking around for a safe 
	place to hide.  He looks up, to the towering trees around them.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		You (guys) both look pretty tired.  I think
			(or)
		why don't we find
			(or)
		we ought to find someplace to rest.

	He hears another ROAR

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Like about now.  C'mon!  Hurry up!  Like this tree.

				LEX
		Why are we hurrying if there's nothing wrong?

				TIM
		What if we fall?  I hate trees.


92	EXT	TREE	NIGHT

	LEX, TIM, and GRANT climb.  Grant is behind, watching the other 
	two, giving them a push up when they need it.

				TIM
		I hate trees!

				LEX
		They don't bother me.

				TIM
		Yeah, you weren't in that last one.

	Now, near the top of the tree, the three of them sit there, 
	dangling their legs, looking out over the park.

	It's an incredible view.  They can see in all directions.  And 
	with the full moon, there's a lot of detail.
	
	Most striking of all are dozens of sauropod heads, at the end of 
	long necks, that tower over the park.

				TIM (cont'd)
		Hey!  Those are brontosauruses - - I mean, those are 
		brachiosauruses.

				GRANT
		It's okay to call them brontosaurs, Tim.  It's a great 
		name.  It's a romantic name.  It means "thunder lizard".

				TIM
			(digging that)
		"Thunder lizard!"

	Grant finds a solid web of branch and settles himself in it, 
	leaning back against the trunk of the tree, with a little room on 
	either side of him. Lex nestles up next to him on the branch.  Grant is 
	surprised, but accepts it.

	Tim climbs off to the side, to a nook in the branch of his own.  
	Silent of a moment, the three can hear the HOOTS of the animals as they 
	call.  Some are almost musical.

				GRANT
		Listen to that!  They're singing!
			(he moves over to a higher branch)
		Of course no one's ever heard one from a dinosaur 
		before, but - - I could swear that sounds  suspiciously 
		to me like a mating call (to me).  In an all-female 
		environment - -
			(or)
		On an all-girl island?

	He smiles, enchanted.  He HOOTS himself, trying to imitate one 
	of the calls.  Immediately, five or six of the heads turn in their 
	direction and HOOT back.

				LEX
		No, no, sh, sh, sh - - stop!  Stop! Stop!  Don't let the 
		monsters come over here!

				LEX
		They're not monsters, Lex. They're just animals.  And 
		these are herbivores.

				TIM
		That means they only eat vegetables.  But for you, I 
		think they'd make an exception.

				GRANT
		Tim, Tim, Tim....

				LEX
		Oh, I hate the other kind.

				GRANT
		They're just doing what they do.
			(or)
		Well the other kind - -
			(he gets off the branch and goes back to sit with 
			the kids)
		- - just do what they do.

				LEX
		Dorkatops!

				TIM
		Straight-A brainiac!

				GRANT
		Could you guys possibly cool that for a - -

	Satisfied, Tim settles in for the night.  Grant shifts too, 
	getting comfortable, but something in his pocket pinches him.  He 
	winces and digs it out.  It's the velociraptor claw he unearthed so 
	long ago in Montana

	Yesterday, actually.  He looks at it, thinking a million 
	thoughts, staring at this thing that used to be so priceless.

				LEX
		What are you gonna do now if you don't have to dig of 
		dinosaur bones any more?

				GRANT
		I guess we'll just have to evolve too.

				TIM
		What do you call a blind dinosaur?

				GRANT
		I don't know.  What do you call a blind dinosaur?

				TIM
		A Do-you-think-he-saurus. What do you call a blind 
		dinosaur's dog?

				GRANT
		You got me.

				TIM
		A Do-you-think-he-saurus Rex.

	Grant laughs.  Both kids finally close their eyes, but after a 
	moment, Lex pops hers open again.

				LEX
		What if the dinosaur comes back while we're all asleep?

				GRANT
		I'll stay awake.

				LEX
			(skeptical)
		All night?

				GRANT
		All night.

	Grant lets the claw fall to the ground.


93	OMITTED


94	INT	RESTAURANT	NIGHT

	ELLIE comes into the darkened restaurant, following the source 
	of the flickering light.  A candle burns at a table in the corner.

	JOHN HAMMOND sits at the table, alone.  There is a bucket of ice 
	cream in the middle, and he's eating a dish of it, staring down 
	morosely.

	Ellie draws up to the table and Hammond looks up at her.  His 
	eyes are puffy, his hair is messed up - - for the first time we've seen 
	him, the fire is gone from his eyes.

				HAMMOND
		They were all melting.
			(or)
		It was all melting.

	Ellie just nods.
	
				ELLIE
		Malcolm's okay for now.  I gave him a shot of morphine.

				HAMMOND
		They'll all be fine.  Who better to get the children 
		through Jurassic Park than a dinosaur expert?

	Ellie nods.  Another pause.  Hammond breaks it again.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		You know the first attraction I ever built when I came
		down south from Scotland?  Was a Flea Circus, Petticoat 
		Lane.  Really quite wonderful. We had a wee trapeze, a 
		roundabout - - a merry-go - - what you call it?

				ELLIE
		Carousel.

				HAMMOND
		A carousel - - and a seesaw.  They all moved, motorized
		of course, but people would swear they could see the 
		fleas.  "I see the fleas, mummy!  Can't you see the 
		fleas?" Clown fleas, high wire fleas, fleas on parade...
			(he trails off)

		Ellie just looks at him, not sure what his state is.  He goes 
		on.

				HAMMOND
		But with this place, I - - I wanted to give (show) them
		something real, something that wasn't an illusion, 
		something they could see and (feel) touch.  An aim 
		devoid of (without) merit.

				ELLIE
		But you can't think through this one.  You have to feel
		it.

				HAMMOND
		You're absolutely right.  Yes, you're right.  Hiring 
		Nedry was a mistake, that's obvious.  	We're over-
		dependent on automation, I can see that now.  But that's 
		all correctable for the next time around.

				ELLIE
		John, John.  John, you're still building onto that Flea 
		Circus, that illusion.  And now you're adding onto it by 
		what you're doing here.  That's the illusion.


				HAMMOND
		(When) Once we have control again we - -

				ELLIE
		Control?!  You never had control!  I was overwhelmed by 
		the power of this place.  So I made a mistake too.  I 
		didn't have enough respect for that power, and it's out 
		now.  You're sitting here trying to pick up the pieces.  
		John, there's nothing worth picking up.  The only thing 
		that matters now are the people we love.  Alan, Lex, and 
		Tim.  And John, they're out there where people are dying 
		- - people are dying, you know?

	There is a long pause.  Hammond avoids her gaze.  Ellie reaches 
	out and takes a spoon out of one of the buckets of ice cream, and licks 
	it.  Finally:

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		It's good.

	He looks up at her, and his face is different, as the unhappy 
	irony of what he's about to say finally hits home.

				HAMMOND
		Spared no expense.


95	OMITTED


96	EXT	PARK	DAWN

	The sun comes up over Jurassic Park.  The danger of the night 
	before is overcome by the sheer beauty of the place - - it really is 
	like the Serengeti Plain.

	Over at the edge of a great open field, a huge tree marks the 
	border between the open area and the thick of the jungle.

	UP IN THE TREE,
	
	GRANT, TIM, and LEX are asleep in the branches of the tree, both 
	kids now curled up under Grant's arms.

	A heavy shadow falls over all three of them, blocking out the 
	sun entirely.  Grant awakens, only a little bit asleep, as - -

	- - a brachiosaur's head pushes into the tree branches, right up 
	beside them.  It hesitates there for a second, seemingly staring at 
	them.  Grant just watches as it opens its mouth very wide and CHOMPS 
	down on a branch over their heads.

	The kids awaken with a start.  Tim points, Lex opens her mouth 
	to scream, but nothing comes out.  Then - -

				LEX
		Go away!

				GRANT
			(quietly)
		It's okay!  It's okay!  It's a brachiosaur!

				TIM
		Veggiesaurus, Lex, Veggiesaurus!

	But Lex isn't taking any chances and scrambles back, away from 
	its mouth.  Tim and Grant come together on the branch, just staring at 
	the dinosaur in wonder as it eats its breakfast.
	
	Grant gets another branch.

	Tim scampers up, trying to get the brachiosaur's attention.

				TIM (cont'd)
		Come here, boy - - I mean girl.
			(he tries  whistling)

	Grant moves forward and tries to feed the brachiosaur.  The 
	animal gets the end of the branch and starts a tug-of-war with Grant.

	Tim tries to help him - - they really begin to have a good time 
	with the brachiosaur.

	HONK!  The brachiosaur makes a loud honking noise, startling 
	Grant and the kids.

				GRANT
		Take a bite, take a bite.  I'm not letting go.

				TIM
		It's so strong!  Look at its nose.
			(he grabs onto the branch)
		Need help?

	Tim reaches out, petting the dinosaur's head while it chews.

				TIM (cont'd)
		That's a girl.  Hey Lex, you can touch it.  It's a girl, 
		just like you.  Come on, it's okay.  Lex, come on and 
		touch it.  It likes you.  It's gotta like you.  Come on 
		Lex.  Lex, come over and touch - - it's a girl, it has 
		to like you.  Lex, why don't you touch it.  It has to 
		like you.  It's a girl.

				GRANT
		Come on, try some.  Take a bite.

				TIM
		It's good protein.  Come on, Lex.  Why don't you touch 
		it?  Look at his nose.

				GRANT
		This is a seventy-seven ton animal.  Come on over, Lex!
		Just think of it as a big cow.  Look at it's teeth?
			(he moves in closer)
		Come here, girl.  This is a seventy-seven ton animal.  
		Just think of it as a big cow!

	Grant maneuvers in closer.  He reaches out and grabs hold of the 
	thing's lip with both hands and pulls it down, revealing the jaw at 
	work.

				LEX
		I like cows.

				GRANT
		You're a beautiful big animal.

				TIM
		His nose is running.  It looks like it has a cold.

	The dinosaur keeps chewing, not objecting to the inspection.
	
				TIM
		Did you smell that?

	Lex tentatively edges forward in the tree to the inspection.

				LEX
		Come on girl, up here.

	She barely touches the thing on the tip of its nose - -

	- - and it SNEEZES.  It's a vast explosion, and Lex falls back, 
	dripping wet from head to toe.

				TIM
		God bless you!


96A	OMITTED


97	ON THE GROUND,

	Lex, her shirt is soaked, and face all wet, walks away from the 
	tree.  Tim and Grant follow.

				TIM
		Oh, great.  Now she'll never try anything new!

	Lex is embarrassed and ticked off.

				TIM (cont'd)
		She'll just sit in her room and never come out and play 
		with her computer - -

				LEX
			(as she wipes off some of the wet and throws it 
			at Tim)
		I'm a hacker!

				TIM
		That's what I said!  You're a nerd!  They don't call you 
		people hackers anymore - - they call you people nerds!

	Tim and Lex continue talking, oblivious to Grant, who has 
	stopped by  a tree root trunk.

				TIM
		Hey Lex, ahhhchooo!
			(or)
		Hey Lex, com here.

				LEX
		What?

				TIM
		Hey Lex, you forgot to say gazundheit.

	Grant is still crouching on the ground below the tree where he 
	landed, staring at something in the palm of his hand.  They both come 
	and look over his shoulder, curious.  They stare in amazement - -

	- - at a whole clutch of dinosaur eggs!  All hatched, now empty.  
	Grant picks up one of the fragments, a large one - nearly half an egg.

				GRANT
		You know what this is?  It's a dinosaur egg.  The 
		dinosaurs are breeding.

				TIM
			(taking the shell from him)
		But - - my grandpa said all the dinosaurs were girls.

				GRANT
		Amphibian DNA.

				LEX
		What's that?

				GRANT
		Well, on the tour - - the film said they used frog DNA 
		to fill in the gene sequence gaps.  They mutated the 
		dinosaur's genetic code and blended it with that of 
		frogs.  Now, some West African frogs have been known to 
		spontaneously change sex from male to female, in a 
		single sex environment.  Malcolm was right!  Look, life 
		found a way!


98	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	The mood in the room is hopeless.  MALCOLM, his wounds bandaged, 
	but in real pain, hangs around with ELLIE and MULDOON, hoping for some 
	development while RAY ARNOLD is still at the computer terminal and 
	looking a mess, he doggedly sorts through the computer system's lines 
	of code.  One.  By one.  By one.  They BLIP by, reflected in his 
	glasses.  He turns and stares up at HAMMOND with a look of absolute 
	incredulity on his face.

				ARNOLD
		No, no, no, that's crazy, you're out of your mind, he's 
		absolutely out of his mind - - 

				ELLIE
		Wait a minute.  What exactly does this mean?

	Hammond turns to her, the twinkle back in his eye.

				HAMMOND
		We're talking, my dear, about a calculated risk, which 
		is the only option left to us.  We will never find the 
		command NEDRY used.  He covered his tracks far too well, 
		and I think it's obvious he's not coming back.  So 
		shutting down the system - -

				ARNOLD
		I will not do it.  You'll have to get somebody else, 
		because I will not.

				HAMMOND
		- - shutting down the system is the only way to 
		guarantee wiping out everything he did. If I understand 
		correctly, all the system will come back on their 
		original start-up modes correct?

				ARNOLD
		Theoretically, yeah (yes), but we've never shut down the 
		whole system.  It may not come back at all.

				ELLIE
		But would we get the phones back?

				ARNOLD
		Yeah, again, in  theory, but - -

				MULDOON
			(desperate)
		What about the lysine contingency?  We could put that 
		into effect!

				ELLIE
		What's that?

				HAMMOND
		It's absolutely out of the question.

	Hammond walks away from the group.

				ARNOLD
		The lysine contingency - it's intended to prevent the 
		spread of the animals is case they ever got off the 
		island, but we could use it now.  Dr. Wu inserted a gene 
		that makes a single faulty enzyme in protein metabolism.  
		Animals can't manufacture the amino acid lysine.  Unless 
		they're continually supplied with lysine by us, they'll 
		go into a coma and die.

				ELLIE
		How would we cut off the lysine?

				ARNOLD
		No trick to it.  Just stop running the program.  Leaving 
		them unattended.

	Malcolm speaks up.

				MALCOLM
		How soon before they become comatose?

				ARNOLD
		It would be totally painless - - they'd just slip into 
		unconsciousness and they die.
	
				MALCOLM
		How long before they slip into unconsciousness?

				ARNOLD
		About - - seven days, more or less.

				ELLIE
		Seven days?!  Seven days?!  Oh, great.  Oh good - - 
		clever.

				MALCOLM
		That'll - it'd be a first; man and dinosaur all die 
		together.  John's plan.
			(he raises a hand)

	Hammond finally loses his cool. He BELLOWS, summoning every 
	ounce of authority at his command.  And that's quite a bit.

				HAMMOND
		PEOPLE ARE DYING!

	There is a moment in which no one dares to speak.  Hammond 
	regains himself.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		Will you please shut down the system.
	
	Arnold swallows and gets to his feet.

				ARNOLD
		You asked for it - -

	He walks slowly across the room to a red metal box on the wall.  
	He takes a key from his belt, unlocks the door, and opens it.

	There is a row of four switches inside.  He flips them off, one 
	by one, leaving only a single lever left.

	His hand hovers over it. . . and he flips the lever.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		- - and you got it.

	Every monitor, every terminal, every fluorescent light shuts 
	out. plunging them into near-darkness.

	They just sit in eerie stillness for a moment.

				ELLIE
			(hushed voice)
		How long will this take?

				ARNOLD
		'Bout thirty seconds.

	They wait, in tense silence.  Hammond adjusts the wilting silk 
	handkerchief in his breast pocket.  He notices Malcolm staring at him, 
	his eyes full of disapproval.

				HAMMOND
		I think perhaps I'll just sit down.  I don't suppose you
		think all that much of me now, do you?

				MALCOLM
		You're all right, John You're okay.  It's just you don't 
		have intelligence.  You have "thinktelligence."  You 
		think narrowly and call it "being focused."  You don't 
		see the consequences.  You're very good at solving 
		problems, at getting answers - - but you just don't know 
		the right questions.

				ELLIE
		Ian - -

	Malcolm looks at her.

				MALCOLM
		Yes?

				ELLIE
		- - shut up.

				MALCOLM
		Yes.
			(to Hammond)
		It's not a criticism, by the way.

	Finally, Arnold turns back to the box.  He flips the row of 
	safety switches back again, then hesitates by the main switch.

				ARNOLD
		Hold on to your butts.

	He throws it.  And nothing happens. There is a very long pause.

				MALCOLM
		It's not working.

				ARNOLD
		Uh - -

				MULDOON
		Listen, which of you knows how to handle a gun?

	Arnold, who can't quite understand this, races over to the main 
	monitor

				ARNOLD
			(joyously)
		HAH!  It's okay!  It's okay!  Look!  See that?!  LOOK!

	They stare at the monitor, which glows with a faint amber light, 
	the only mechanical thing in the room that's on.  The left hand corner 
	of the screen displays two words - -

	/system ready.

	Arnold looks at them, his face triumphant.

				ARNOLD (cont'd)
		It's on!  It worked!

				HAMMOND
		That will teach you to trust Grandpa.

				MALCOLM
		Wait a minute?  What do you mean "worked"?  Everything 
		is still off!

				ARNOLD
		The shutdown must have tripped the circuit breakers. 
		All we have to do is turn them back on, reboot a few 
		systems in here - - the phones, security doors, half a 
		dozen others - - but it worked!  System ready!

				MULDOON
		Where are the breakers?

				ARNOLD
		Out in the maintenance shed.  Other side of the 
		compound.  I'll go out there.  Three minutes, and I can 
		have the power back on in the entire park.

				HAMMOND
		Just to be safe, I'd like to have everybody in the 
		emergency bunker until Mr. Arnold returns, and the whole 
		system is back on its feet again.


	CUT TO:


A99	EXT	COMPOUND	DAY

	MULDOON and ELLIE carry a Gerry rigged stretcher with MALCOLM on 
	it down a narrow path in the compound.  HAMMOND is with them.
	

	CUT TO:
	

96D	EXT	PARK GROUNDS	DAY

	GRANT, TIM, and LEX walk through the park grounds, heading 
	across a relatively open area. Grant consults the map.
	
				TIM & LEX
		I'm tired, and I'm hungry.  When I get back I'm gonna
		have peanuts and...etc.

				GRANT
		The visitor's center should be just about a mile beyond 
		that rise.  If we keep - -
	
	The ANIMAL CRY they heard earlier is closer now, louder, and 
	repeated by many more animals.  Grant looks up.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		What is that? Can you tell me what they are?

				TIM
		Gallimimus.

	He turns around, to face the direction the sound is coming from. 
	He squints.  The ANIMAL CRY are much louder now, accompanied by a low 
	rumble.

				TIM (cont'd)
		Here - - they're flocking this way.

	Grant takes a few steps forward.  As he watches, he can make out 
	shapes in the distance.

	Dinosaurs.  Dozens of them.  All at once, he figures it out.

				GRANT
		STAMPEDE!

	And that's exactly what it is, a stampede of at least forty 
	dinosaurs, Gallimimus by name.  Lex is ready to get out of there, but 
	Grant and Tim hesitate, staring.

	The dinosaurs kick up a flock of birds, which startles them, and 
	they call change direction at once, the same way.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Look at the wheeling - - the uniform direction change!  
		Like a flock of birds evading a predator!

	Sure enough, they hear a ROAR, the very familiar roar - -
	- - of Tyrannosaurus rex.

				GRANT
		Oh, shit.

	Grant and the kids whirl at the sound, but can't place it, as it 
	seems to come from all around them.  They look back towards the 
	stampede.  The herd spontaneously changes direction again, and now 
	they're headed straight at them.

	The three of them take off, across the meadow, toward the 
	relative cover of the jungle.  It's a real footrace, but the herd is 
	far faster, and Grant knows they're not going to make it.

	They jump over a huge root network.  There's a space under it to 
	hide, and Grant stops the kids, shoves them underneath, then follows 
	them.  They cover their heads as the herd THUNDERS over the roots.

	Chunks of everything fly everywhere as the herd plows overhead, 
	their clawed feet striking the roots dangerously close to Grant and the 
	kids.

	Finally, they pass. Grant peers up, over the top root.  He looks 
	toward the trees, which the herd is now running alongside.

	A ROAR comes from somewhere within the trees.

	Grant scans the trees, looking for any sign of the T-rex - -

	- - and then it bursts out, ahead of the herd, cutting them off, 
	throwing them into disarray, scattering them everywhere.

	They all stare as the rex kicks it into overdrive, runs down one 
	of the Gallimimus, and sinks its teeth into its neck.

	The T-rex makes the kill in a cloud of dust and debris.

	Tim and Grant half rise to their feet, staring in wonder.

				LEX
		I wanna go - -now!

	But Grant and Tim are transfixed, watching the T-rex.

				GRANT
		Watch how it eats!

				LEX
		Please!

				GRANT
		Bet you'll never look at birds the same way again!

		Tim nods in fascination.  The T-rex pauses in the middle of its 
		meal and ROARS.

				LEX
		Let's go!

				GRANT
		Okay.  Keep low.  Follow me.

	She turns and takes off, running as fast as she can, across the 
	open plain.  Tim and Grant tear themselves away and follow her.

				TIM
		Look at all it's blood!


	CUT TO:


97


THRU	OMITTED


101


100	INT	BUNKER	DAY

	ELLIE paces impatiently.  She comes down the stairs.

				ELLIE
		Something's happened.  Something went wrong.

	MULDOON paces too.  HAMMOND and MALCOLM are also crammed in the 
	underground bunker.  Malcolm lays on a table, while Hammond tries to 
	tend to his wounds.

	Hammond speaks, still feeling the obligation of the host.

				HAMMOND
		This is just a delay, that's all this is.  All major 
		theme parks have had delays.  When they opened 
		Disneyland in 1956, nothing worked, nothing.

				ELLIE
		John....

				MALCOLM
		But, John.  But if the Pirates of the Caribbean breaks 
		down, the pirates don't eat the tourists.

	Another pause.  More pacing.

				ELLIE
		I can't wait anymore.  Something went wrong.  I'm going 
		to go get the power back on.

				MULDOON
		You can't just stroll down the road, you know.

				HAMMOND
		Bob, let's not be too hasty.  He's only been gone - -
			(he looks at his watch)

	Muldoon walks over to a steel cabinet.  Ellie joins him.

				MULDOON
		I'm going with you.

				ELLIE
		Okay.

	Muldoon CLANGS open a steel cabinet, revealing an impressive 
	array of weaponry inside.  He removes a shotgun and what looks like a 
	small rocket launcher.  He shoves a shell into the barrel of the rocket 
	launcher, which accepts it with a faint electronic SIZZLE.

	Hammond searches out the set of blueprints, gets them out of the 
	file cabinet and spreads them out on top of Malcolm almost crushing his 
	leg.

				HAMMOND
		Sorry.

	Ellie and Muldoon join Hammond.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		This isn't like switching on the kitchen light, but I 
		think I can follow this and talk you through it.

	Hammond signals with a look.

				ELLIE
		Talk.
			(or)
		Right.
			(or)
			(nothing)

	Ellie gets a couple of walkie-talkies from the shelf and shoves 
	them in her belt.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		Okay.

				HAMMOND
		But you know, I should  really be the one going (to go).

				ELLIE
		Why?

				HAMMOND
		Well, because you're a - - I'm a - -

				ELLIE
		Look.

				MULDOON
		Come on, let's go.

				ELLIE
		We'll discuss sexism in survival situations when I get 
		back.
			(she backs towards the door)
		You just take me through this step by step.  I'm on 
		channel two.


	CUT TO:


101	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	GRANT, TIM, and LEX scrambles through the jungle, completely out 
	of breath, exhausted.  They arrive at the base of the big electrical 
	fence that surrounds the main compound.

	Grant looks up at the fence.  It must be over twenty feet high.

				GRANT
		It's a bit of a climb.  You guys think you can make it?

				TIM
		Nope.

				LEX
		Way too high.

	Grant grabs a stick and climbs up on the ledge.  He looks at the 
	warning light on the fence.  It's out.  He pokes the wire with a stick. 
	No sparks fly
	
				GRANT
		Well, I guess that means the power's off.

	Still not trusting the fence, he taps it with his foot.  He 
	moves in slowly and lays both hands on a cable and closes his fingers 
	around it.

	Grant's body shakes!  He SCREAMS.  The kids SCREAM!  He stops, 
	and turns around slowly...and smiles wickedly.

				LEX
		That's not funny.

				TIM
		That was great!
	
	Far in the distance, the T-rex ROARS.  Without a second's delay, 
	both kids leap to their feet.

	
	CUT TO:


102	EXT	BUNKER	DAY

	ELLIE and MULDOON step out of the bunker.

	The main compound feels different now - - it belongs more to the 
	jungle than to civilization.  Muldoon has the big gun in his hands.

				ELLIE
			(on the radio)
		Okay, I'm on channel two.

				MULDOON
		Stick to my heels.

	They start down the path, moving quickly.


102A	EXT	PATH	DAY

	MULDOON and ELLIE emerge from one path and come into a slightly 
	more open area.  The huge raptor pen stands silently, surrounded and 
	penetrated by jungle, the abandoned goon toward looming over it like a 
	haunted house.

	Muldoon slows down, Ellie right next to him.  They notice a hole 
	in the fence that surrounds the raptor pen.

	The metal is twisted, as if gnawed, the hole is large enough for 
	an animal to slip through.

				ELLIE
		Oh my God.  Aw, God.

				MULDOON
	The shutdown must have turned off all the fences. 
	Goddamn it! Even Nedry knew better than to mess with the 
	raptor fence.


103

	He squats near the hole, looking at the ground.  He sees three 
	sets of footprints. He follows them with his eyes.  They head off in 
	different directions, but all in the jungle foliage on either side of 
	them.

				MULDOON
		C'mon on, this way.

				ELLIE
		I can see the shed from here!  We can make it if we run!

	Muldoon walks slowly, as if he heard something.

				MULDOON
		No. We can't.

				ELLIE
		Why not?

				MULDOON
		Because we're being hunted.  From the bushes straight 
		ahead.

	Ellie turns, very slowly, to face the bushes.  At first, she 
	doesn't see anything, but then there's something very faint, like a 
	shifting of the light, and a shadow seems to move in the bush, RUSTLING 
	the leaves.

				MULDOON
		It's all right.

				ELLIE
		Like hell it is!

	Muldoon raises his weapon slowly to his shoulder.

				MULDOON
		Run, towards the shed.  I've got her.

	Ellie backs up, down the path, slowly. Muldoon follows behind 
	her, keeping his gun trained in the bushes. The shadow in the bushes 
	moves too, at an even pace with them.
	
				MULDOON
		Go!

	Ellie, startled, turns and falls over a log.  She quickly stands 
	and starts to run towards the shed.  Muldoon walks slowly into the 
	bushes.

	ON THE PATH,

	Ellie runs as fast as she possibly can - - a real broken field 
	sprint, hopping over branches, flying across the open area at top 
	speed.  Over a log - - SPLASH!, she hits a water puddle.  She comes to 
	another log obstacle - - she grabs a tree and swings over it.
	
	She nears the maintenance shed, and doesn't look back. She 
	reaches the door, blasts through it, and SLAMS it behind her.


	CUT TO:


104	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	A hand comes into the foreground and takes a firm grip on one of 
	the tight fence cables.  Another hand follows it, then a third.

	GRANT, TIM, and LEX climb over the fence, pulling themselves up 
	by the tension wires, crawling right past a "DANGER!" sign that tells 
	them this fence ought to be electrified.


105	INT	BUNKER	DAY

	MALCOLM and HAMMOND hover over a complex diagram of the 
	maintenance shed that's spread out in front of them.  Hammond clutches 
	the radio in his hand, almost praying to it.

	Finally, it CRACKLES.
	
				ELLIE (o.s.)
		I'm in.  Mr. Arnold?  Mr. Arnold?


106	INT	MAINTENANCE SHED	DAY
	
	ELLIE is at the doorway of the maintenance shed, breathing hard 
	from fear, listening to Hammond's VOICE on the radio

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		Great.  Good.  Okay - - ahead of you should be a metal 
		stairway.  Go down it.

	Ellie does, heading into the room, shining the flashlight ahead 
	of her.  There is a maze of pipes. ducts, and electrical work on both 
	sides of her.

108	INT	SHED	DAY

	ELLIE walks straight ahead from the bottom of the metal stairs.

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
	Right.  After twenty or thirty feet, you'll come to a T 
	junction. Take a left.

				MALCOLM (o.s.)
		John. just have her follow the main cable - -

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		I understand how to read a schematic.

	Ellie keeps walking, nervous as hell.  She looks around.  
	Awfully dark down here.

				ELLIE
		Going down the stairs...okay... damn it!  Dead end!
	
				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		Wait a minute, wait a minute, there was a right back 
		there somewhere - -

				MALCOLM (o.s.)
			(taking over)
		Ellie?!  Look above you - - there should be a large 
		bundle of cable and pipes all leading in the same 
		direction!  Follow that!

	Ellie looks up, finds the bunch of cables, and follows it into a 
	main corridor.

				ELLIE
			(into the radio)
		Piping...okay... following the piping.  It goes back up
		the stairs and across the stairs... following the 
		stairs.

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		Look for a metal grate and that to it's longest 
		direction.
			(*ADDED DIALOGUE, NOT RECORDED)

				ELLIE
		Mr. Arnold?  He's not answering me.  Okay I'm on the
		grating.

				HAMMOND
		Good!  Keep going, now.  The cable will terminate in a 
		big, gray box.

				ELLIE
		Okay, I'm following the tubing.  I'm going down a 
		passage way.  How long does this stuff go for?  Could 
		you guys talk a little bit to me?

			(NOTE:  DIALOGUE TO BE ADDED, WASN'T RECORDED - - Steven 
			Spielberg wants Malcolm to say something funny to Ellie over the radio; 
			she smiles)

	Walking fast Ellie follows the tubing to the end of the 
	corridor, where she sees just a box.

				ELLIE
			(into the radio)
		Okay - - I see the gray box.

	Ellie goes through a mesh gate and walks towards the gray box.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		It says "High Voltage".

	She pushes the door open even further, revealing a vast array of 
	breakers and switches inside.

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		Now, Ellie, you can't just throw the main switch by
		hand, you have to pump up the primer handle to give you 
		a charge. It's a large, flat, gray - -

				ELLIE
		I see it!


109 EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	GRANT and the KIDS swig over the top of the fence and start 
	their climb down.


110	INT	SHED	DAY

	ELLIE pumps the gray handle, which is sluggish.  Above it, a 
	small white indicator CHINGS over the "discharged" to "charged".  Ellie 
	SLAMS the gray lever back into positions.

				ELLIE
		It's charged, okay!
	
				HAMMOND (o.s.)
		Right (good)!  Now, under the words "contact position"
		there's a round green button that says "push to close!"  
		Push it!

	Ellie does.  The "contact position" light CHINGS over to 
	"closed" and lights start to go on all over the panel.

	Did I do it?  Is the power back on?


111	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	GRANT and LEX continue to climb down the fence.  Tim is having 
	difficulty - - just as he's about to take another step, he loses his 
	footing and almost falls... but then regains control and hangs on.


112	INT	SHED	DAY

	ELLIE watches as the column of twelve white indicator lights 
	flash on the control panel.  They are clearly labeled, each one for a 
	different area of the park.

				HAMMOND (o.s.)
	Now Ellie, the red buttons turn on the individual park 
	systems.  Switch them on.

	As Ellie punches the buttons, they light up... and our eyes go 
	to near the end of the row.

	It's marked "Perimeter Fence."


113	INT	JUNGLE	DAY

	GRANT lets go, dropping the last few feet to the ground.  LEX 
	does the same.

	A warning light begins to flash, coming back to life.  Grants 
	eyes go wide.  He looks up at TIM, who is still far up - - near the 
	top, in fact, he has to come to a complete stop.


114	INT	SHED	DAY

	ELLIE keeps pushing the buttons. She's getting closer to the 
	button for the fence.


115	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	TIM, terrified, has frozen where he is.

				GRANT
		Tim - - you have to let go!


116	SHED	DAY

	ELLIE's still punching the buttons, now only a half a dozen away 
	from the one for the fence, now five, now three - -


117	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	GRANT and LEX are botch screaming at TIM

				GRANT
		C'mon Tim, move down, damn it!

				LEX
		Timmy!  The power is coming down, quick!

				TIM
		I can't!  I'm scared!

				GRANT
		Tim, you're gonna have to let go.  I'm going to count to 
		three.

				LEX
		Jump, Timmy!  It's too late!

				TIM
		I'm afraid I am gonna fall!

				GRANT
		Go, go, go, jump!

				TIM
		You're crazy!  I'm not gonna jump!

				GRANT
		Tim, you're going to have to let go of the fence.  Tim!
		Get down right now.  Get off the fence!  Now!

				LEX
		Do as he says!  The power's coming back, Timmy!

				GRANT
		Timmy, let go!  You're gonna have to let go!  Count to 
		three.  I'll catch you.

				LEX
		Timmy!  Do as he says!  Timmy!  Do as Dr. Grant says, 
		quick!

				TIM
		Are you crazy?  What if you miss?  I hate it up here.

				GRANT
		Tim, I'm right here.  Easy catch.  Easy catch.  Count to 
		Three..

				LEX
		You're gonna get electrocuted
			(or)
		electrified!  The power's coming back!

				TIM
		Shut up!  You're scaring me.  Stop!  You're scaring me.

				GRANT
		Shhhh.  Tim, I'm right here below you.  Easy catch.
		One, two, three.  You count it yourself.  One, two, 
		three - -

				LEX
		You're gonna get electrocuted
			(or)
		electrified!

				GRANT
		It's am easy catch, you let - - go - - you do the 
		counting, you count it, Tim.  One, two, three -- you do 
		all the counting, okay?

				LEX
		Timmy, listen to Dr. Grant!

				GRANT
		I'm coming up there Tim! I'm coming to get you!  Lex, 
		I've got to get him!


118	INT	MAINTENANCE SHED	DAY

	ELLIE finally pushes the button for the fences. It stops 
	flashing and lights up, a brilliant white.


119	OMITTED


	CUT TO:


119	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	The fence HUMS as it awakens.  GRANT and LEX are SCREAMING at 
	TIM:

					TIM
		Okay, okay!  I'm going to count to three.  One, two, 
		three....

	With a low, loud frightening BUZZ - -

	- - the fence comes alive.

	POW!  Tim is cut off mid-sentence, and literally thrown from the 
	fence.  He SLAMS into Grant.  They fall to the ground.  Lex runs over 
	to them.

					GRANT
		Tim, you're okay?  You're okay?
	
	GRANT notices a larger problem.

					GRANT (cont'd)
		He's not breathing.  Tim?


120	INT	MAINTENANCE SHED
	
	ELLIE watches as the banks of fluorescent lights in the 
	maintenance shed come on, one by one.
	
	The lights are going on in rows, coming closer and closer to 
	her. Finally, her row comes on.  She follows the light and sees - -
	
	- - a raptor, right there, behind the control panel!  It 
	SLASHES, taking a lunging sweep at Ellie, but gets stuck, its feet and 
	legs tangled in the maze of pipes on the floor.
	
	This is our first good look at one of these things, and if it 
	weren't so terrifying, we could admit that it truly is a thing of 
	beauty.  It's the biggest of the raptors, intensely muscled, 
	coordinated as hell, a smoothly designed predator.
	
	Ellie SHOUTS and falls back into the pipes on the other side of 
	the aisle.
	
	The raptor untangles itself from the pipes and gives chase, just 
	as Ellie SLAMS the mesh door closed. The raptor BANGS against the mesh 
	door, Ellie falls to the ground.
	
	She holds on by kicking the door shut as the raptor continues to 
	push himself through the door.  Ellie is able to get the door closed.  
	She stands, but then falls back onto one of the walls.
	
	A dead arm falls onto her shoulder.  RAY ARNOLD is there, or 
	what's left of him, stuck in the tangle of pipes.  Ellie moves away, 
	and his arm falls to the ground.
	
	She doesn't realize that she has moved right back near the mesh 
	wall - - and the raptor comes at her again. Ellie takes off running as 
	fast as she can, back the way she came.  She drags the flashlight with 
	her, running over the dead arm and Arnold's legs.
	
	She continues to run, her headset dangling, the flashlight 
	dragging behind her on its cord.
	
	She reaches the stairs and hits them hard, flying up them.  The 
	raptor must be right behind her, she can hear the CLICKING and CLANGING 
	as it scrambles up the stairs, but she doesn't look back.
	
	She reaches the top, throws open the door, hurls herself outside 
	- -
	

121	EXT	SHED	DAY

	- - and SLAMS the door behind her, just as the raptor's head 
	SNARLS at her from near the top of the stairs.  She runs out the fence 
	and collapses.

A121	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	TIM is still unmoving.  GRANT is performing CPR, alternately 
	compressing Timmy's chest fifteen times, quickly, and breathing into 
	his mouth twice.

	LEX is freaking out.
	
	Fifteen compressions.  Two deep breaths.
	
				GRANT
		C'mon, Tim.

	Fifteen compressions.  Two deep breaths.

				GRANT
		TIMMY!

	Fifteen compress- -

	Tim GASPS and comes to.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Good boy, Tim. Good boy.

				TIM
		Three.  (Two, three).


	CUT TO:


B121	EXT	JUNGLE	DAY

	ROBERT MULDOON creeps slowly through the jungle foliage, 
	tracking his prey.  He ducks and walks through a hollow log, underneath 
	a fallen tree, following the RUSTLING sound up ahead of him.

	He can see just a trace of the raptor's gray flesh as it movies 
	behind the bushes up ahead, staying camouflaged enough to deny him a 
	decent shot.  Thinking he's got a moment, Muldoon extends the back 
	handle of the gun and clicks it into place.  He prepares to take aim.

	A snake slithers across a tree branch, past what looks like the 
	large iris of a flower.

	The flower blinks.

	It's the eye of the raptor.  Muldoon sees it.  He raises his 
	gun.

	Instead of running away again, the raptor rises slowly out of 
	the brush, fully revealing itself to Muldoon, HISSING at him.

	The corners of Muldoon's mouth twitch up into a smile.  He draws 
	a bead on the animal.

	His finger tenses on the trigger. Suddenly, his smile vanishes, 
	both eyes pop open, and a terrible thought sweeps across his face.  His 
	eyes flick to the side - -

				MULDOON
		Clever girl.

	- - which is where the attack comes from.  With a ROAR, another 
	raptor comes  flashing out of nowhere and pounces on him.  The gun 
	BLASTS, but wildly, and the raptor's claw SLASHES through Muldoon's 
	midsection.

	Muldoon SCREAMS and falls back, the raptor locked on top of him, 
	all tooth and claw all of a sudden.

	As the second raptor makes the kill, the first raptor strides 
	slowly forward and watches approvingly.
	
	It throws its head back and SNARLS.


122	INT	VISITOR'S CENTER	DAY

	GRANT, TIM, and LEX come into the deserted visitor's center.  A 
	large sign that says "When Dinosaurs Ruled the Earth. . ."  droops 
	overhead.  Grant now carries Tim, who is weakened but conscious.

				GRANT
		HELLO?!

	But nobody answers.


123	INT	RESTAURANT	DAY

	GRANT, TIM, and LEX come into the restaurant. Grant carefully 
	sets Tim in a chair at one of the tables.  Lex across from him.

				GRANT
	I am gonna have to find the others and get you to a 
	doctor.  Will you look after Tim, Lex?

				LEX
			(scared as hell)
		Yes.

	Grant nods.  He looks at Tim for a second.

				GRANT
		Your hair's all standing up.

	He gently rearranges Tim's hair, which is wild, all over this 
	head.  Tim looks up at him weakly and manages a smile.  Grant smiles 
	back.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Big Tim, the human piece of toast.

	Tim laughs.  Grant pauses for a second, as if debating something 
	- -

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Be back soon, guys.  I promise.

	He leaves.  As he goes across the lobby of the visitor's center 
	and outside, they can see his silhouette, moving through a translucent 
	mural that depicts dinosaurs in various natural settings.  It's quiet 
	for a second as Lex and Tim just look at each other.

	Tim goes across the room, to an all-you-can-eat table on the 
	other side, and quickly piles some food on a tray.  He brings its back 
	to the table.

	Lex digs in, munching on veggies, grabbing food with two hands.  
	Tim enjoys his food, too.

	Lex comes up with a spoonful of lime Jell-O from a plastic 
	dinosaur egg cup - - but her hand freezes halfway to her mouth.

	Tim looks up, and sees the expression on her face.  She's 
	staring over his shoulder, eyes wide, the Jell-O quivering in her 
	shaking hands.

				TIM
		What?

	Tim turns around.  Behind him, one of the silhouettes on the 
	mural is a raptor, in a hunting pose.

	While they stare, the silhouette of a real raptor moves out from 
	behind it and creeps forward, in the lobby of the visitor's center.


124	INT	KITCHEN	DAY

	LEX pulls the shiny metal door shut as quietly as she can.  It 
	latches with a distinctive CLICK, but there's no lock.

	She runs to a panel of lights switches and kills them all, 
	plunging the room into semidarkness.  She helps TIM down an aisle and 
	they hide at the end, behind a counter, breathing hard.

	A raptor's head pops into view, visible through the round window 
	in the middle of the restaurant door.

	It just looks for a moment, its breath steaming up the window.
	
	THROUGH THE WINDOW,
	
	as the steam evaporates, the raptor can see a part of Tim that 
	is not entirely hidden by the counter.

	IN THE KITCHEN,

	TIM and LEX remain frozen in fear as the raptor first SNIFFS at 
	the bottom of the door, then THUMPS its head against it.

	But the door doesn't budge.


	CUT TO:


125	EXT COMPOUND	DAY

	GRANT walks quickly down the narrow path towards Hammond's 
	compound, eyes darting from side to side, not exactly sure where he's 
	going.  From far off, he hears someone SHOUTING to him.

	He turns.  He sees ELLIE, standing outside the bunker.  She's 
	waving to him, SHOUTING something too faint for him to hear.

	He furrows his brow and walks towards her.  She SHOUTS louder.  
	He walks faster.  He's closer now, and he can finally make out where 
	she's shouting.

				ELLIE
		Run!

	Grant takes off running towards her, not even looking back. He 
	races up, and she runs into his arms.

				ELLIE (cont'd)
		Where are the kids?!


126	INT	BUNKER	DAY

	JOHN HAMMOND stands between GRANT and ELLIE in the bunker, 
	watching as Grant RACKS the bolts on a ten gauge shotgun.

				GRANT
			(to Ellie)
		It's just the two raptors, right?  You're sure the third 
		one's contained?

				ELLIE
		Yes, unless they figured out how to open doors.

	
	CUT TO:


127	INT	KITCHEN	DAY

	OUTSIDE THE DOOR TO THE KITCHEN,

	the raptor stares down at the door handle, cocking its head 
	curiously.  It SNARLS and bumps the door handle with its head, but that 
	doesn't do anything.
	
	It reaches out, toward the handle, with one clawed hand.
	
	IN THE KITCHEN,
	
	Tim and Lex stare in shock as the door handle starts to turn.
	
	The door opens.  The first raptor stands in the doorway, draws
	itself up to its full height, and looks around the kitchen.

	Now, a second raptor joins it in the doorway.  They move into 
	the room, brushing against each other.  The first raptor SNAPS as the 
	second, as if to say "keep your distance."

	Now the raptors split, taking two different aisles. Tim and Lex 
	crawl away, Tim awfully weak now, down a third aisle, around the other 
	side of the counter from the raptors, moving in the opposite direction.

	As Tim and Lex pass the raptors, one of the raptor's tails SMACK 
	into some pots and pans, knocking them off the counter.  They fall on 
	the kids, who manage to keep quiet.

	The kids keep moving as one of the raptors dips down, looking 
	through an open cabinet to inspect the racket.

	Tim and Lex reach the end of the aisle and round a corner - - 
	but Timmy's falling behind now, and he accidentally brushes against 
	some hanging kitchen utensils.

	Both raptors turn.  One jumps onto the counter, knocking more 
	kitchen stuff to the floor.  A ladle CLATTERS to a stop, and the 
	strange metallic sounds confuse the raptors for a moment.

	But then they move, in Tim's direction, SNIFFING, heading right 
	for him.

	The raptor on the floor is just about to turn the corner to 
	where Tim sits, exposed and exhausted, but both the raptors suddenly 
	stop, hearing a CLICKING sound from the other end of the aisle.

	It's Lex, TAPPING a spoon on the floor to distract them.  The 
	raptor on the counter jumps down and starts cautiously towards Lex's 
	noise, leaving Tim.

	Lex sees a steel cabinet behind her, its sliding door slid up 
	and open.  She crawls inside, silently.
	
	Tim sees the raptors make the turn towards Lex, SMASHING more 
	stuff around with their tails.  He turns and sees a walk-in freezer in 
	the far wall, with a pin-locking handle.

	As Lex tries to pull the overhead door to the cabinet shut, one 
	of the raptors rounds a corner and sees her reflection on a shiny 
	cabinet front.  Lex tries frantically to lower the cabinet door, but 
	it's stuck.

	Tim takes a few deep breathes, summons what little strength he 
	has left - -

	- - and makes a break for the walk-in freezer.  He's limping, 
	dragging himself, really moving like a wounded prey now, and - -

	- - the other raptor spots him.  Both raptors go into a pre-
	attack crouch - -

	- - and they pounce, one towards each of the kids.

	Lex tugs on the cover, to the avail - - Tim's raptor charges 
	after him, just open floor space between them - -

	- - and Lex's raptor THUDS into a shiny surface bearing hr 
	reflection.  It chased the wrong image.  It sags to the floor, 
	semiconscious.

	At the other end of the aisle, the real Lex SCREAMS as the other 
	raptor bears down on Tim. Tim reaches the freezer, rips the door open, 
	and falls inside.  The floor is cold and slick and his feet go right 
	out from under him.  He sprawls across the floor, rolls out of the way 
	- -

	- - and the raptor slips and falls into the freezer too, right 
	past him.

	Tim drags himself to his  feet and out of the freezer.

	The raptor makes one last lunge, right on Tim's heels, its mouth 
	wide open - -
		
	- - but Lex SLAMS the door shut just as Tim is clear.  The 
	raptor's head is caught for a second, but it SNARLS, retreats, and 
	Lex's gets the door shut all the way.

	The raptor ROARS and SCREAMS inside. Lex jams the pin through 
	the handle, locking it in.

	Now the other raptor staggers to is feet.  Groggy, it SMASHES 
	into stuff all over the kitchen. Lex throws her arms around Tim again 
	for support and they take off.


128	INT	RESTAURANT	DAY

	TIM and LEX hurry across the restaurant.  They stare back over 
	their shoulders as they run.  They CRASH into GRANT and ELLIE.

				LEX
		It's in there!

				ELLIE
		Control room.


129	INT	SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR	DAY
	
	GRANT, ELLIE, and the KIDS race down the second floor corridor 
	towards the control room, Grant helping Tim.


130	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	The door to the control room SMACKS open.  GRANT, ELLIE, and the 
	KIDS burst in. Ellie heads straight for Nedry's computer terminal.  
	Grant moves Tim to the side, and races back to the door to lock it.

				LEX
		We can call for help?!

				ELLIE
		We've got to reboot the system first!

	She sits at the computer and studies the screen.  It's flashing 
	to her, dominated by a maze-like grid.  She studies it, confused.

				GRANT
			(at the door)
		Oh, no!  The door locks - - Ellie!  Boot up the door 
		locks!  Boot up the door locks!

	POW! Something hits the door, hard, from the outside, the kids 
	SCREAM, Grant hurls his back against it - - Grant loses his gun.  He 
	struggles.  The raptor scratches his head.

				ELLIE
		ALAN!

	- - and Ellie leaps out of the chair and races over to the door 
	to help him.  A raptor SNARLS and SNAPS, RAMMING itself against the 
	door, trying to force its way into the control room.  It's all Ellie 
	and Grant can do to hold the door against the onslaught, but it bucks 
	against them viciously.

				GRANT
			(to Ellie)
		Ellie - - get back and boot up the door locks!

				ELLIE
		You can't hold it by yourself!

				GRANT
		Ellie, get the gun!
			(or)
		Try to reach the gun!

				ELLIE
		I can't get it!
			(or)
		I can't get it unless I move!

	OVER AT THE COMPUTER,

	Lex slides quickly into the command chair at Nedry's terminal.  
	She stares at the screen for a moment - -

				LEX
		This is a Unix system.  I know this.  It's the files for 
		the whole park.  It's like a phone book - -it tells you 
		everything.

	- - and then her fingers start to fly over the keyboard.  Tim 
	watches, amazed, as the computer starts to respond to Lex's commands.

				LEX (cont'd)
		I've got to find the right file.  Oh no, this isn't 
		right. This might be right, no this isn't it.

				TIM
		C'mon, Lex!  C'mon, Lex!  Go, Lexie!

	Reaching another menu, Lex spots a box on the screen that reads 
	"DOOR INTEGRITY."  She reaches out and touches it.  The screen BEEPS - 
	-

				LEX
		There it is, I got it! This is it, I did it.  Yes, yes!

	- - and the door latch panel BUZZES.  Grant and Ellie put 
	everything they have into it and finally the door SNICKS shut, locking 
	the raptor outside.

				GRANT
		What works?

				LEX
		Phone security systems, everything works.  You ask for
		it, we got it!


	CUT TO:


131 INT	BUNKER	DAY

	A phone RINGS.  HAMMOND and MALCOLM look at each other, wide-
	eyed.  Hammond lunges for it.

				HAMMOND
		Grant?!  The children alright?


132	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	All the screens in the control room have come alive now, and 
	data is scrolling by at incredible speed as every remaining system is 
	the park comes back on line.  ELLIE is at the keyboard with LEX now, 
	figuring things out, and GRANT is on the phone.

				GRANT
		The children are fine.


133	INT	CONTROL ROOM DAY

	HAMMOND is on the phone, MALCOLM is trying to listen.

				HAMMOND
		Thank God.

				GRANT (o.s.)
		Listen, the phones are back up!  Call the mainland!  
		Tell them to send the damn helicopters - -

	Suddenly Grant stops in the middle of his sentence.  A SCREAM 
	cuts in, then three GUNSHOTS, fast, and a horrible CLUNKING as the 
	phone is dropped.

				HAMMOND
		Grant!  GRANT!

	But there's no answer.


134	INT	CONTROL ROOM	DAY

	Grant's rifle lies on the floor, smoking, several spent shells 
	alongside it.  The front window of the control room has three huge 
	impact shatter patterns in the glass, where the gunshots hit.

	TIM goes into an open panel through the ceiling, and into the 
	crawl space.  LEX climbs the ladder, followed by ELLIE and GRANT.

	Grant looks over to the front window, scared as hell, just as - 
	-

	- - it SHATTERS in a shower of glass and a raptor EXPLODES into 
	the control room.  It lands on its feet on a work station console, 
	images from wall projectors falling across its head.

	Grant vaults himself up into the ceiling, and knocks the ladder 
	with his feet.

	The raptor tilts its head curiously, looking up at the swaying 
	ceiling.


135	IN THE CRAWL SPACE,

	Grant, Ellie, and the kids dash across the ceiling panels, 
	moving fast, but carefully, so as not to break through.

	SMASH!  The raptor's head bursts through a panel behind them, 
	leaping up at them, SNARLING and SNAPPING.

	It drops down again, and they keep moving forward.  But now it 
	ERUPTS through a panel right in front of them.  They SCREAM, its teeth 
	CLICK just inches in from of Ellie - -

	- - but the raptor can't hold itself up there, and it falls back 
	to the floor of the control room.
	
	Grant looks around frantically and spots an air duct a few yards 
	away.

				GRANT
		Follow me!

	They move for it, but the raptor's head CRASHES through the 
	ceiling again, this time right underneath Lex.

	She SCREAMS and is lifted up, on top of its head, and pinned to 
	the ceiling above.

	Grant SMASHES hit boot into the side of the raptor's head.  The 
	raptor SLAMS at him, latching onto his boot for a second before the 
	raptor's own weight pulls it back down.

	Lex goes down with the raptor, spinning into the hole in the 
	ceiling, tumbling down.  Grant grabs her by the collar at the last 
	second, but Lex dangles there, above the raptor.

	The animal flips over onto its feet and crouches to pounce just 
	as Grant summons his strength and jerks Lex back into the ceiling.

	The raptor springs, but too late.  Grant and Lex scramble over 
	to the air duct and join Ellie and Tim inside it.


136	IN THE AIR DUCT,

	Grant, Ellie, and the kids crawl through the air duct as fast at 
	they can, the thin metal BOOMING and creasing around them.  They reach 
	a metal gate that shows daylight beneath.  Grant reaches out and pulls 
	it up.

	Through the gate, they can see the lobby of the visitor's center 
	below.  They're directly above the skeletons of the dinosaurs, the T-
	rex and the sauropod it's attacking.  The unfinished skeletons are 
	surrounded by scaffolding.


137	INT	ROTUNDA	DAY

	Grant and the others climb down out of the air duct and onto a 
	platform of the scaffolding that stands alongside the skeletons.  They 
	continue down to the second platform, then the third.  They suddenly 
	see - -
	
	A RAPTOR, standing to the side by the second floor railing.

	It's much too far to jump to the lobby floor, so Grant climbs 
	gingerly onto the nearest skeleton, the towering brachiosaur.
	
	They climb down as fast as they can.  Grant helps Tim down, Lex 
	and Ellie follow.  Ellie goes to the tail.  Lex moves to the front.  
	Grant lands on the main body in the middle with Tim.  And the raptor 
	watches them.
	
	Up in the ceiling, the skeleton's anchor bolts GROAN in the 
	plaster, starting to pull free.  But for now, they hold.

	The raptor flies out and lands on the back of the middle section 
	of the skeleton.  SNAP!  It CRACKS apart with the weight, sending the 
	sections spinning in all different directions.
	
	Grant and Tim twirl on the middle section. Tim begins to slide 
	down.  Grant tries to hold on to him - - but Tim loses his grip and 
	falls to the ground right underneath the swinging, large middle section 
	of the dinosaur skeleton.

	Meanwhile, Lex spins on the front section.  She slips - - and 
	tries to keep from falling as she hangs by her legs.

	The anchor bolts in the ceiling RIP free, ZINGING past them like 
	bullets.  The entire brachiosaur skeleton collapses like a house of 
	cards sending Ellie to the ground.  She covers herself with her arms, 
	trying to protect her head from the shower of falling bones.
	
	Lex falls, landing on the ground with bones falling on top of 
	her.  She SCREAMS.
	
	Grant, alone in the middle section, looks up and sees the cable 
	about to SNAP - - he falls!  The large section of the skeleton comes 
	careening down, heading straight for Tim, who lays where he fell on the 
	ground.  It comes SMASHING down. . . with just enough space for him to 
	be safe.
	
	The raptor tumbles to the floor in a cascade of splintering 
	bone.

	It lands on its back a few yards away and staggers for a moment, 
	the wind knocked out of it.
	
	Grant lands in front of Tim.  He stands, and goes to Tim.  Lex 
	sits up and sees the raptor regain its feet.  She SCREAMS.

	Ellie stands.  She notices the shadows of the second raptor, 
	standing behind the visqueen.  She stops dead in her tracks.  She backs 
	up towards Grant and Tim.

	The raptor comes out from under the plastic and looks around.  
	Grant gets Tim out from under the skeleton. Lex joins them.  They back 
	away from the raptor, approaching from the left side.  They back up 
	towards the large rock in the middle of the room holding the other 
	skeleton.

	The raptor crouch in their pre-attack stance - -
	
	The group is caught in the middle of the two approaching 
	raptors.
	
	Lex looks back and SCREAMS.  Grant and the others continue to 
	back up.  They look up and see - -

	- - TYRANNOSAURUS REX!  It's massive head descends down from 
	above.  A set of six-foot jaws clamp down on the raptor.  Eighteen-inch 
	teeth sink into its side, and the helpless animal HOWLS in agony as 
	it's lifted up, up, up off the floor of the lobby.

	Grant and the others look up in stunned amazement.  They step 
	back behind the rock for safety and look to the right.  They see 
	another raptor approaching.

	The other raptor goes up in the air now, twenty feet off of the 
	lobby floor, held fast in the mouth of the Rex.  It stands in the 
	entrance to the lobby in front of the massive hole it ripped through 
	the Visqueen wall.  It shakes its enormous head once, BREAKING the neck 
	of the velociraptor, then drops it, dead, to the floor at its feet.

	Grant, Ellie, and the kids skirt the battle royal on the lobby 
	floor and dash of the door of the Visitor's Center.

	The second raptor turns from the humans and lunges at the Rex's 
	side, leaping twelve feet into the air and rending the Rex's flesh as 
	it comes down, slashing it open with its six-inch claw.

	The rex BELLOWS in pain, and turns on the raptor, eyes raging, 
	and strikes, just once, quickly, as fast as the head of a serpent.  It 
	catches the raptor by thick back end, buts one of its enormous feet 
	down on it, and tears.
	
	It rips the last velociraptor in half.
	
	The rex whirls around - as it turns, its heavy tail 
	counterbalances, SNAPPING the other way, sweeping across the lobby and 
	SMASHING right through the T-rex skeleton.
	
	The skeleton collapses in an explosion of bones, falling to 
	pieces around the living rex.
	
	The rex stands majestically in the middle of the lobby, both 
	skeletons swept away, SNAPPING like matchsticks as they settle around 
	the animal.

	The rex draws itself up to its full height - -

	- - and ROARS.

	The sound is deafening, and the vibrations rattle the entire 
	Visitor's Center.  The sign which dangled over the lobby by its one 
	remaining wire finally falls, CLATTERING to the floor at the Rex's 
	feet, face up.

	"WHEN DINOSAURS RULED THE EARTH", it says.


137A	OUTSIDE THE VISITOR'S CENTER

	Hammond SQUEALS the Jeep to a halt in front of the steps.  
	Malcolm is lying in the back.

	Grant and the other practically fall into the Jeep.

				GRANT
		Mr. Hammond, I've decided not to endorse your Park.

				HAMMOND
		After careful consideration, Dr. Grant - - so have I.

	Hammond hits the gas and the Jeep takes off.


137B


THRU	OMITTED


137C


139	EXT	HELICOPTER LANDING PAD	DAY

	The helicopter rotors whirl to life as the chopper waits on the 
	landing cross.  Two Jeeps ROAR up next to it, one driven by GRANT, the 
	other by HAMMOND.


INT	HELICOPTER	DAY

	One by one, they climb aboard, their faces white from their 
	ordeal.

	ELLIE comes on first, holding LEX.  Then HAMMOND, carrying TIM. 
	And GRANT, helping MALCOLM.

	No one speaks.  Hammond takes another look at his dream, Grant 
	comes over and takes him back to the helicopter.

	The helicopter takes off immediately.  As they rise into the 
	air, they stare out the windows, looking down on the park as it spreads 
	out below.


140	DOWN IN THE PARK,

	the helicopter soars over a vast plain.  The Tyrannosaur, which 
	is still feeding on the remains of the dinosaurs it ran down and 
	killed, looks up.

	It throws its head back and ROARS, waving its little forelimbs 
	at the strange thing in frustration.  As the helicopter moves off, the 
	T-rex just stares, silently, with huge, yellowing eyes.  It's a moment 
	of utter bewilderment for the rex, and we almost feel - -

	- - sad for her.


141	BACK IN THE HELICOPTER,

	Hammond looks down at the park, his eyes full.  He looks over at 
	the kids.

	They're in the back of the helicopter, with Grant.  As they look 
	out the window, Grant almost absently has his arms around both kids.

	Now Ellie looks at him.  Both he and the kids seem so natural, 
	so obviously comfortable and trusting with each other.  She smiles.

	The four of them sit that way, in the back of the helicopter, 
	huddled together.  Survivors.

	Grant looks out the window.

	The helicopter sweeps low over a huge flock of sea birds that's 
	feeding on a school of fish. As the chopper ROARS near, it kicks up the 
	flock.  Hundreds of birds sail off in all directions, powerful and 
	graceful.

	Grant looks at the bids and breaks into a wide grin.

	The birds reform as flock again and fly straight into the sun.

	FADE OUT.
    
    THE LOST WORLD
 JURASSIC PARK

Screenplay by
David Koepp

based on the novel by
Michael Crichton

	EXT. TROPICAL LAGOON - DAY

	A 135-foot-luxury yacht is anchored just offshore in a 
	tropical lagoon.  The beach is a stunning crescent of white
	sand at the jungle fringe, utterly deserted.

				ISLA SORNA
		87 miles southeast of Nublar

	Two SHIP HANDS, dressed in white uniforms, have set up a
	picnic table with three chairs on the sand and are carefully
	laying out luncheon service -- fine china, silver, crystal
	decanters with red and white wine.

	PAUL BOWMAN, fortyish, sits in a chair off to the side,
	reading.  MRS. BOWMAN, painfully thin, with the perpetually
	surprised look of a woman who's had her eyes done more than
	once, supervises the settings of the table.

	She looks up and sees a little girl, CATHY, seven or eight
	years old, wandering off down the beach.

				MRS. BOWMAN
		Cathy!  Don't wander off!

	Cathy keeps wandering.

				MRS. BOWMAN (cont'd)
		Cathy, come back!  You can look for
		shells right here!

	Cathy gestures, pretending she can't hear.

				BOWMAN
			(eyes still in his book)
		Leave her alone.

				MRS. BOWMAN
		What about snakes?

				BOWMAN
		There's no snakes on a beach.  Let
		her have fun, for once.

	FURTHER DOWN THE BEACH,

	Cathy keeps wandering away, MUTTERING to herself as her
	parents' quarreling voices fade in the distance.

				CATHY
		Please be quiet, please be quiet
		please be quiet...

	Rounding a curve in the beach, her parents disappear from view
	behind her.  A RUSTLING sound draws her attention, and she
	turns, toward where the thick jungle foliage gives way to the
	sand.

	A large bush, maybe twelve feet tall, is moving, its branches
	swaying and shaking.  Curious, Cathy walks up to the bush,
	which abruptly stops moving.

	A small, lizard-like animal, dark green with brown stripes
	along its back, steps out from the bush.  Only about a foot
	tall, it stands on its hind legs, balancing on its thick tail.
	It walks upright, bobbing its head like a chicken.

				CATHY
		Well, hello there!

	The animal (a COMPSOGNATHUS) just stares at her.  Cathy squats
	down on her haunches.

				CATHY (cont'd)
		What are you?  A little bird or
		something?

	She opens her hand.  She's got a handful of goldfish crackers.

				CATHY (cont'd)
		Are you hungry?  You want a goldfish?

	The compy bobs forward a few steps, cautiously.

				CATHY (cont'd)
		Come on.  I won't hurt you.

	The compy draws closer.  Cathy holds the cracker in the palm
	of her hand.  The compy gets closer still --

	-- and hops numbly up onto Cathy's palm.  Her arm dips a bit
	under the weight, but it's not that heavy, and she holds it up
	easily.  It bobs its head, scarfs up the goldfish, and eats
	it.

	Enchanted, Cathy breaks into an enormous grin and returns her
	hand, calling back over her shoulder.

				CATHY (cont'd)
		Mom!  Dad!  You gotta come see this!
		I found something!

	She turns back.

	Thirty more compys have come out onto the sand.  They're
	standing there, bobbing anxiously, staring at her from a few
	feet away.  Cathy's smile fades.

	She turns her head slowly to the right.  TWENTY MORE COMPYS
	have come in from that side, forming a semi-circle, bobbing
	and CHIPPING as they surround her.

				CATHY (cont'd)
			(terrified)
		What do you guys want?

	BACK ON THE BEACH,

	the table is set.  Mrs. Bowman calls out.

				MRS. BOWMAN
		Cathy, sweetheart!  Lunch is ready!

	From around the curve of the beach, a flock of birds bolts
	from the jungle trees as Cathy's shrill SCREAMS suddenly
	pierce the air.

				MRS. BOWMAN
		PAUL!

	She takes off, running down the beach, Mr. Bowman leaps out of
	his chair and follows, and all available deck hands race off
	to help, kicking up geysers of sand behind them.

	DOWN THE BEACH,

	Mrs. Bowman stops dead in her tracks when she rounds the bend
	in the beach.  We don't see what she sees, but we hear the
	frenzied SQUEAKING of the strange compys.  Mr. Bowman and the
	Hands race past her to help Cathy as Mrs. Bowman lets loose a
	horrified, slack-jawed SCREAM, her mouth a perfect oval.

							DISSOLVE TO:

	INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY

	Mrs. Bowman's screaming face dissolves slowly over the
	YAWNING face of a bored CORPORATE EXECUTIVE, TWENTY OTHER
	EXECUTIVES sit around a conference table in the boardroom of a
	monied corporation.  All are in expensive suits, most are over
	sixty.  There are rows of BACKBENCHERS too, whispering in their
	lawyers who sit behind their clients, whispering in their
	ears.  Empty coffee cups and fast food containers on the table
	hint that everyone's been here a long time.

	A familiar VOICE resounds through the boardroom as we move
	down the long table, pat the grim faces of the board members.

				VOICE (O.S.)
		The hurricane seemed like a disaster
		at the time, but now I think it was a
		blessing, nature's way of freeing
		those animals from their human
		confines.  Of giving them another
		chance to survive, but this time as
		they were meant to, without man's
		interference.

	The source of the voice is JOHN HAMMOND, the founder of InGen
	and creator of Jurassic Park.  But he's not in the room.  His
	image is on a closed circuit TV screen, which has been wheeled
	up to the end of the table.

	And he doesn't look good.  He's terribly infirmed, propped up
	in bed, his face pale and drawn, medical equipment BEEPING
	around him.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		There are some corporate issues that
		are not about the bottom line.  We
		have so much still to learn about
		those creatures.  A whole world of
		intricate, interlocking behaviors,
		vanished everywhere -- except for
		Site B. Please.  Let's not do what
		is good for more men at the expense
		at what is best for all mankind.

	The CHAIRMAN, seventyish, nods awkwardly to the television.

				CHAIRMAN
		Thank you, John.  Mr. Ludlow?

	He turns to PETER LUDLOW, late thirties, a man with the
	anxious look of someone who insists the buck stop on his desk.
	Ludlow flips open a file, pulls out a stack of black and white
	eight by tens, and tosses them on the table.

				LUDLOW
			(an accent similar to
			 Hammond's)
		These pictures were taken in a
		hospital in Costa Rica forty-eight
		hours ago, after an American family
		on a yacht cruise stumbled onto Site
		B.  The little girl will be fine, but
		her parents are wealthy, angry, and
		very fond of lawsuits.  But that's
		hardly new to us, is it?
			(takes a paper from the
			 file)
		Wrongful death settlements, partial
		list:  family of Donald Gennaro, 36.5
		million dollars; family of Robert
		Muldoon, 12.6 million.  Damaged or
		destroyed equipment, 17.3 million.
		Demolition, de-construction, and
		disposal of Isla Nublar facilities,
		organic and inorganic, one hundred
		and twenty-six million dollars.  The
		list goes on, gentlemen -- research
		funding, media payoffs.  Silence is
		expensive.

	He's warming up.  Not a bad performer.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		This corporation has been bleeding
		from the throat for four years.  You,
		our board of directors, have set
		patiently and listened to ecology
		lectures while Mr. Hammond signed
		your checks and spent your money.
		You have watched your stock drop from
		seventy-eight and a quarter to
		nineteen flat with no good and in
		sight.  And all along, we have held a
		significant product asset that we
		could have safely harvested and
		displayed for profit.  Enormous
		profit.

	He reaches out to a model on the table and gives it a shove,
	sending it sliding down the length of the table in front of
	them.  It's a mini-mall version of a zoo.  Cages hold tiny
	replicas of various kinds of dinosaurs while Boy Scout troops
	and Tourists look on in wonder.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		Enough money to wipe out four years
		of lawsuits and damage control and
		unpleasant infighting, enough to not
		only send our stock back to where it
		was but to double it.  And the one
		thing, the only thing standing
		between us and this asset is a
		born-again naturalist who happens to
		be our own CEO.  Well, I don't work
		for Mother Nature.  I work for you.

	Two of his Backbenchers distribute documents from a stack.
	Ludlow takes one and reads from it.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		"Whereas the Chief Executive
		Officer has engaged in wasteful and
		negligent business practices to
		further his own personal
		environmental beliefs --
		Whereas these practices have 
		affected the financial performance
		of the company by incurring
		significant losses --
		Whereas the shareholders have been
		materially harmed by these losses --
		Thereby, be it resolved that John
		Parker Hammond should be resolved from
		the office of Chief Executive
		Officer, affective immediately."  Mr.
		Chairman, I move the resolution be
		put to an immediate vote.  Do I have
		a second?

				BOARD MEMBER
		I second the motion,  Mr. Chairman,
		Please poll the members by a show of
		hands.

	The CHAIRMAN signs heavily, feeling like a traitor.  He can't
	bear to look at Hammond on the TV monitor.

				CHAIRMAN
		All those in favor of InGen Corporate
		Resolution 213C, please signify your
		approval by raising your right hand.

	It starts slowly, guiltily, but every hand in the room goes
	up.  Ludlow sits back, victorious.  Hammond, furious, raises
	his right hand, which holds a remote control, and points it at
	the TV screen.  It goes blank.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. WELDER'S YARD - NIGHT

	Sparks fly out the windows and doors of a shed in the middle
	of a welder's yard.  Scrap iron and steel lies everywhere.
	Somewhere inside the shed, a phone RINGS.

	The WHOOSH of the arc welder shuts off.  DIETER STARK, a big
	barrel-chested man of forty or so, his face streaked with soot
	and grime, steps outside with a cordless phone, a cigarette
	dangling from his lips.

				DIETER
		Yeah.

	He takes a deep drag while someone talks on the other end.  He
	smiles and blows out a cloud of smoke.

							CUT TO:
	INT. NEW YORK SUBWAY - NIGHT

	Smoke turns into steam as a subway THUNDER into a station
	underneath Manhattan.  The door WHOOSH open, spit out some
	COMMUTERS and suck up a few more.

	A tall man hurries down the platform, limping heavily, moving
	as fast as he can.  The subway doors begin to close, but just
	before they meet --

	-- the man jams a cane in between, stopping them.  The man
	is IAN MALCOLM, fortyish, dressed in black from head to toe.
	There's a hard wisdom in Malcolm's eyes that may not have been
	there's a few years ago -- he know what you think, and he
	doesn't care.

	INT. SUBWAY CAR - NIGHT

	MALCOLM finds a seat on the crowded subway car and sits down.
	He looks awful.  Tired.  Weathered.  He notices a CURIOUS MAN
	across from his is staring at his.  Malcolm looks away.  The
	Curious Man still stares.  Nervy, the Curious Man gets up and
	approaches.

				MALCOLM
			(under his breath)
		Shit.

	The Curious Man sits down next to Malcolm, grinning.

				MAN
		You're him, aren't you?

				MALCOLM
		Excuse me?

				MAN
		The guy.  The scientist.  I saw you
		on TV.
			(conspiratorially)
		I believed you.

	No response from Malcolm.  The guy leans in even closer.

				MAN (cont'd)
		Roooooarr.

				MALCOLM
			(a withering look)
		I was misquoted.  I was merely
		speculating on the evolutionary
		scenario of a Lost World.  I never
		said I was in any such place.

	He gets up and moves to another seat on the car, away from the
	Curious Man.  As he sits down, he notices two other COMMUTERS
	across from him are staring at him.

	He looks at them.  They looks away.

	He pulls the collar of his coat up tight around him.  Nowhere
	to hide.

	INT. JOHN HAMMOND'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

	A UNIFORMED BUTLER has a question:

				BUTLER
		Whom shall I tell Mr. Hammond is
		calling?

	MALCOLM stands in the foyer of an expensively decorated Park
	Avenue apartment.

				MALCOLM
		Ian Malcolm

	A door opens and a little dog comes YAPPING out of the back.
	It bounds straight at Malcolm, GROWLING, jaws SNAPPING.  It
	lunges --

	-- and Malcolm BATS it away with one swift swing of his cane.
	The dog rolls across the floor and slinks away, WHINING.  The
	Butler looks at Malcolm disapprovingly.
	
				BUTLER
		Not an animal lover?

				MALCOLM
		Not really.

	INT. HAMMOND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

	MALCOLM enters a darkened bedroom.  JOHN HAMMOND lies in the
	bed we saw earlier, on the other side of the room;

	Medical equipment has been disguised as well as possible among
	the furniture and flowers, but the sheer abundance of it tells
	us that whatever has stricken him is going to win this battle.

				HAMMOND
		Ian!  Don't linger in the doorway
		like an ingenue, come in, come in!

	Malcolm steps further into the room.

				HAMMOND (cont'd)
		It's good to see you.  It really is.
		How's the leg?

				MALCOLM
		Resentful.

				HAMMOND
		When you have a lot of time to think,
		it's funny who you remember.  It's
		the people who challenged you.  It is
		the quality of our opponents that
		gives our accomplishments meaning.  I
		never told you how sorry I was about
		what happened after we returned.
	
	Noticing Hammond's deteriorated condition, Malcolm finds it
	hard to sustain anger.
	
				MALCOLM
		I didn't know you -- weren't well.
		
				HAMMOND
		It's the lawyers.  The lawyers are
		finally killing me.
		
				MALCOLM
		They do have motives.  Why did you
		want to see me?  Your message said it
		was urgent.
		
				HAMMOND
		You were right -- and I was wrong.
		There!  Did you ever think you'd hear
		me say that?  Spectacularly wrong.
		Instead of observing those animals, I
		tried to control them.  I squandered
		an opportunity and we still know next
		to nothing about their lives.  Not
		their lives as man would have them,
		behind electric fences, but in the
		wild.  Behavior in their natural
		habitat, the impossible dream of any
		paleontologist.  I could have had it,
		but I let it slip away.
			(pause)
		Thank God for Site B.
		
	Malcolm just looks at him for a long moment.
	
				MALCOLM
		What?
		
				HAMMOND
			(a spark in his eye)
		Well?  Didn't it all seem a trifle
		compact to you?
		
				MALCOLM
		What are you talking about?
	
				HAMMOND
		The hatchery, in particular?  You
		know my initial yields had to be low,
		far less than one percent, that's a
		thousand embryos for every single
		live birth.  Genetic engineering on
		that scale implies a giant operation,
		not the spotless little laboratory I
		showed you.

				MALCOLM
		I don't believe you.

				HAMMOND
		Isla Nublar was just a showroom, Ian,
		something for the tourists, Site B
		was the factory floor.  We built it
		first, on Isla Sorna, eight-some
		miles from Nublar.

				MALCOLM
		No, no, no, no, no, no . . .

				HAMMOND
		After the accident at the park, a
		hurricane wiped out our facility on
		Site B.  We had to evacuate and leave
		the animals to fend for themselves.
		And they did.  For four years I've
		fought to keep them safe from human
		meddling, now I want you to go there
		and document them.

				MALCOLM
		Are you out of your mind?  I still
		have nightmares, my reputation's a
		joke, my leg is shot -- you think I
		need more of that?

				HAMMOND
		It would be the most extraordinary
		living fossil record the world has
		ever seen.

				MALCOLM
		So what?

	Hammonnd picks up a thick file folder from the night table near
	to him and open it on his lap.  Inside, there are memos,
	charts, maps and photographs.

				HAMMOND
		I've been putting this together for
		over a year.
			(MORE)
		I have personal suggestions for your
		entire team, phone numbers, contact
		people.  They won't believe you about
		what they're going to see, so don't
		bother trying to convince them.  Just
		use my checkbook to get them there.
		I'll fund your expedition through my
		personal accounts, as such money and
		equipment as you need, but only if
		you leave immediately.  If we
		hesitate, all will be lost.

				MALCOLM
		John . . .

				HAMMOND
		You'll need an animal behaviorist,
		someone with unimpeachable
		credentials.  I believe you already
		know Sarah Harding.  She's got
		theories about parenting and
		nurturing among hunter/scavengers I
		bet she'd be dying to prove on a
		scale like this.  If you convince her
		to go, it'll be a major coup.  When
		she publishes, the scientific
		community must take it seriously.

	Malcolm just shakes his head, flipping through the file sadly.

				HAMMOND
		Your documentation, you should use
		forensic photographic methods,
		Hasselbladt still cameras, high
		definition video.  When the trick
		photography analysts take your
		evidence apart, make it impossible
		for them to say there was enhancement
		or computer graphic imaging.  Oh,
		this is very important -- avoid the
		island interior at all costs.  Stick
		to the outer rim.  Everything you
		need to know can be found there.
		Vindication lies on the outer rim.

	Malcolm gently closes the file and pushes it back to Hammond.

				MALCOLM
		I'm not going, John.

				HAMMOND
			(fatigue returning)
		Ian, you are my last chance to give
		something of real value to the world.
		I can't walk so far and leave no
		footprints; die and leave nothing
		with my name on it.  I will not  be
		known only for my failures.  And you
		will not allow yourself to go down in
		history as a lunatic.  You're too
		smart.  You'e too proud.  Dr.
		Malcolm.  Please.  This is a chance
		at redemption.  For both of us.
		There's no time to equivocate, we
		must seize it now, before --

	He stops, staring over Malcom's shoulder.  Malcom turns.
	PETER LUDLOW, still in his overcoat, is standing in the
	doorway to the bedroom.  He looks back and forth from Hammond
	to Malcolm suspiciously.

				LUDLOW
		Hello, Uncle John.  Dr. Malcolm.

	Malcolm doesn't answer.  He seems to know Ludlow, and dislikes
	him.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		Did I interrupt something?

	Malcolm turns back to Hammond.

				MALCOLM
		Find someone else.

							CUT TO:

	INT. HAMMOND'S APARTMENT/FOYER - NIGHT

	In the foyer, LUDLOW hands MALCOLM his coat, just a trifle
	rudely, and shepherds him to the door.

				LUDLOW
		So, you two were just, uh, telling
		old campfire stories, were you?

				MALCOLM
		Do me a favor.  Don't pretend for a
		second that you and I don't know the
		truth.  You can convince Time
		magazine and the Skeptical Inquirer
		of whatever you want, but I was 
		there.

				LUDLOW
		You signed a non-disclosure agreement
		before you went to the island that
		expressly forbade you from discussing
		anything you saw.  You violated that
		agreement.

				MALCOLM
		You cost me my livelihood.  That on
		which I relied to support my
		children.

				LUDLOW
		If your university felt you were
		causing it embarrassment by selling
		wild stories to Hard Copy, I hardly
		see how I am to--

				MALCOLM
		I didn't tell anything, I told the
		truth.

				LUDLOW
		You version of it.

				MALCOLM
		There are no versions of the truth!
		This isn't a corporate maneuver, it's
		my life.

				LUDLOW
		We made a generous compensatory offer
		for your injuries.

				MALCOLM
		It was a payoff and an insult.  InGen
		never--

				LUDLOW
		InGen is my livelihood, Dr.
		Malcolm, and I will jealously defend
		its interests.  People will know what
		I want them to know when I want them
		to know it.

	Ludlow tosses something to Malcolm, hard.  It sails across the
	foyer, upright, and Malcolm reaches out and catches it with
	one hand.  It's his cane.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		Don't forget that.

	Malcolm stares at him for a long moment.  Finally, he turns
	and walks away.

	But he does not out of the apartment.  Instead, he
	walks directly past Ludlow, crosses the living room, and steps
	back into Hammond's bedroom, closing the door behind him with
	a determined CLICK.

	INT. HAMMOND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

	HAMMOND looks up, hopeful, as MALCOLM comes back into the room
	and walks over to his bed.  He reaches down --

	-- and picks up the file folder.

				MALCOLM
		Do you have a satellite phone?

							CUT TO:

	INT. MOMBASSA BAR - DAY

	ROLAND TEMBO, late sixties, skin like leather and the diamond
	hard look of a cobra, sits at a table in the middle of an
	African cafe/bar in Mombassa.

	It's daytime and the place is half full, mostly with locals,
	but there are a few obnoxious TOURISTS too, Americans on
	safari who somehow found the local handout.

	They're a noisy bunch, but Roland tunes them out, calmly
	eating his lunch and drinking a beer while he reads a book,
	eyeglasses hanging low on his nose.

	Roland suddenly stops reading and furrows his brow.  He looks
	up.  He SNIFFS the air once, then smiles and calls out a
	person's name.

				ROLAND
		Ajay?

	He turns around.  AJAY (AH-jay) SIDHU, a wiry East Indian in
	his late forties, is standing behind him, caught trying to
	sneak up.

				AJAY
			(delighted)
		How did you know?

				ROLAND
			(taps his nose)
		That cheap aftershave I send you
		every Christmas, you actually wear
		it.  I'm touched.  Sit down, sit
		down, what brings you to Mombassa?

				AJAY
		You.  Tell me, Roland, when was the
		last time you answered your phone?

				ROLAND
		Last time I plugged it in, I suppose.
		Why?

	Behind them, the group of TOURISTS, all men, laughs loudly.
	One of them, the MOST OBNOXIOUS TOURISTS, berates the WAITRESS.

				AJAY
		I got a call from a gentleman who's
		going to Costa Rica, or thereabouts.
		If he's to be believed, it's a most,
		uh, unique expedition.  And very
		well-funded.

				ROLAND
		Well, I'm a very well-funded old son
		of a bitch.  You go.

	The Most Obnoxious Tourist bellows for the Waitress.  His
	buddies LAUGHS.  Roland throws a glance, annoyed.

				AJAY
		But alone?  We always had great
		success together, you and I.

				ROLAND
		Just a little bit too much, I
		think.

				AJAY
		How do you mean?

				ROLAND
		A true hunter doesn't mind if the
		animal wins.  If it escapes.  But
		there weren't enough escapes from you
		and me, Ajay.  I've decided to spend
		a bit less time in the company of
		death.  Maybe I just feel too close
		to it my--

	The Waitress comes to the Tourists' table and the Most
	Obnoxious Tourist actually paws her ass.  Roland is out of his
	chair in a second.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
			(to Ajay)
		Excuse me.

	Romand walks over to the Tourists' table, says something to
	the Waitress in the local dialect, and she walks away, behind
	him.  He stares down at the Most Obnoxious Tourist.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		You, sir -- are no gentleman.

				TOURIST
		Is that supposed to be an insult?

				ROLAND
		I can think of none greater.

	The Tourist looks at his Buddies and laughs.

				TOURIST
		Buzz off, you silly old bastard.

				ROLAND
		What do I have to do to pick a fight
		with you, bring your mother into it?

				TOURIST
		Are you kidding?  I could take you
		with one arm tied down.

				ROLAND
		Really?

	IN THE MIDDLE OF THE FLOOR,

	the Waiter finishes tying a man's wrist to his belt in the
	back of his pants with a napkin.  He pulls the knot tight and
	the man turns around.

	It's Roland, with his arm tied down.  The Tourist stands
	across from him.

				TOURIST
		I mean my arm.

	POW!  Roland punches him square in the jaw.  The Tourist
	reels, stunned.  Enraged, he lunges at Roland, swinging with
	both arms.

	Roland bobs, neatly ducking the punches, waits for the Tourist
	to turn around, and POPS him thrice in the face.  The Tourist
	spins and goes down to the floor, face first.  A cloud of
	sawdust and a loud CHEER from the locals rise up in the bar.

	BACK AT HIS TABLE,

	Roland drops the napkin on the table and sits back down with
	Ajay.  In the background, the Tourist's Buddies hurriedly
	carry their fallen cohort out of the bar.

				ROLAND
		Sorry.  We were saying?

				AJAY
		You broke that idiot's jaw for no
		reason other than your boredom.  Tell
		the truth, Roland.  Aren't you even
		interested in knowing this
		expedition's quarry?

				ROLAND
		Ajay.  Go on up to my ranch, take a
		look around the trophy room, and tell
		me what kind of quarry you think
		could possibly be of any interest
		to me.

	Ajay just smiles.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. AFRICAN SAVANNAH - NIGHT

	The African savannah appears in shades of fluorescent green,
	seen through night-vision goggles.  An ANIMAL YELP comes from
	the left and the green vista sweeps abruptly toward it.  The
	world blurs momentarily, then comes into focus on a field of
	long grass.

	The grass ripples in a complex pattern as animals move
	stealthily through it.  One animal head pops up above the
	grass for a split-second, teeth bared, a white stripe between
	its eyes.  SARAH HARDING pulls the goggles away from her face.

				SARAH
		Hyenas.  Ace Face is the striped
		snout.

	Sarah is thirty, with a compact, athletic body built for the
	outdoors.  She loos through the goggles again, sweeping ahead
	of the hyenas to their prey.

	It's a herd of African buffalo, standing belly-deep in the
	grass, agitated, bellowing and stamping their feet.

	Sarah turns to MAKENA, her African assistant.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		They'll try to take down a calf.
		Come on.

				MAKENA
		Closer?

	Sarah scurries up and over a rock face.  Makena follows.
	Closer now, they watch as the hyenas rush the herd, running
	through it, trying to break it up.

				MAKENA (cont'd)
		You know, we could see everything
		from up on the edge of that cliff.

				SARAH
		No way.

				MAKENA
		But the view would --

				SARAH
		No cliffs.
			(into a pocket recorder)
		F1 headed sough, F2 and F5 flanking,
		twenty yards.  F3 center.  F6
		circling wide east.  Can't see F7.

	While she talks, breathless, fascinated by the drama before
	her, Sarah continues to creep closer and closer to the action.
	Makena follows, with growing unease.

				MAKENA
		Sarah.

				SARAH
		F8 circling north.  F1 straight
		through, disrupting.  Herd moving,
		stamping.  There's F7.  Straight
		through.  F8 angling through from the
		north.

	She's practically on top of the animals now.

				MAKENA
		Dr. Harding.

	Makena has a hold of Sarah's sweatshirt and is tugging her
	back, at least trying to slow down her progress as Sarah,
	wide-eyed with fascination, creeps even closer.

	Suddenly there is a tremendous BELLOWING and the grass right
	in front of them rips apart, trampled under the feet of the
	hyenas as they cluster around a fallen buffalo calf.  They
	yelp and jump, their muzzles bloody.

	The adults move aside, making room as the hyena pups come
	forward, squealing to get at the kill.  Sarah's eyes shine
	with excitement and she moves even closer, whispering into the
	tape recorder.

				SARAH
		Brooding behavior in evidence at the
		kill site, pups are ushered forward
		and adults help them eat, pulling
		flesh away from the carcass and--

	A telephone rings.

	Sarah stops in mid-sentence, unsure if she heard what she
	thought she heard.  It rings again, the unmistakable CHIRPING
	of a cellular phone.  Sarah and Makena both move at once,
	pawing at a backpack.

				SARAH (cont'd)
			(a frantic whisper)
		I thought you turned it off!

	Two hyenas look inquisitively in the direction of the phone.
	Sarah comes up with it and jabs at a button in irritation.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		Yes?!

	Someone speaks on the other end.  Sarah rolls her eyes.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		Ian.  This better be important.

	Sarah doesn't say anything for a long moment, just listens as
	the voice on the other end talks.  And talks.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		When?

							CUT TO:

	INT. MOBILE FIELD SYSTEMS - DAY

	Ian Malcolm's leg, badly scarred, is bared and draped over the
	end of a bench.  Two sandbags are fastened to his ankle and
	MALCOLM is lifting them, painfully rehabbing his injury while
	talking on a satellite phone.

				MALCOLM
		We leave in twenty-four hours.  Five
		member team.

	Behind them, the SPARKS of a acetylene torch fly as WORKMEN
	make modifications on several vehicles, including a dark-green
	Mercedes Benz AAV (all-activity vehicle).  The hood of the AAV
	is up and the V-6 engine has been pulled out; a new, smaller
	engine is lowered in its place.  To one side are two long
	trailers, connected by an accordion-like passageway, like on a
	subway car, allowing one to be towed behind the other.

				MALCOLM
		Eddie Carr's handling all our
		equipment and he'll be there to
		maintain it.  He's designing special
		field trailers now, top of the line
		mobile research units.

	EDDIE CARR, fortyish, is barking out orders to the Workmen.

				EDDIE
		No, no, look at the plans, Henry,
		you can't place that strut laterally,
		it has to be crosswise, LOOK AT THE
		PLANS!

	From the ceiling, a large metal age CRASHES down, landing
	next to them on the floor with a deafening CLANG.  They leap
	back and look up.  A WORKMAN waves from a scaffolding.

				WORKMAN
		Sorry, Eddie!  Specs say it can't
		deform at 12,000 PSI, we had to test
		it

	Eddie bends down to inspect the cage, which is rectangular,
	constructed of inch-thick titanium-alloy bars.  Malcolm hangs
	up the phone and walks up, joining him.

				MALCOLM
		Any damage?

				EDDIE
		Minimal.

				MALCOLM
		"Minimal" is too much.   It has to be
		light, it has to be strong --

				EDDIE
		Light and strong, light and strong,
		sure, why not, it's only impossible.
		God save me from academics.

				MALCOLM
		You are an academic.

				EDDIE
		Former academic.  Now I actually make
		things.  I don't just talk.

				MALCOLM
		You think I'm all talk, Eddie?

				EDDIE
			(doesn't look at him)
		It doesn't matter what I think.

				MALCOLM
		Is there anything we've forgotten?
		Anything at all?

	Behind them, someone CLEARS THEIR THROAT.  Eddie and Malcolm
	turn around.  KELLY MALCOLM, an African-American girl around
	twelve years old, stands in the doorway to the garage, a
	duffel bag slung over one shoulder.  She looks at Malcolm and
	breaks into a wide grin.

				KELLY
		Hi, Dad.

				MALCOLM
		Kelly!  What are you doing here?

	She drops the bag on the floor, and wraps her arms around him
	in a warm embrace.  He responds stiffly.

				KELLY
		Vacation.  I'm all yours.  You didn't
		forget, did you?

	She pulls back and looks at him.

				KELLY (cont'd)
		Did you?

							CUT TO:

	INT. EDDIE'S OFFICE - DAY

	KELLY is slumped in a chair in Eddie's office next to the
	construction floor.  Outside the glass windows work on the
	vehicles continues unabated.  MALCOLM hangs up the phone.

				MALCOLM
		Okay, Karen is expecting you in half
		an hour.  You only have to stay with
		her one night, she'll put you on a
		bus in the morning and your mother
		will be at the station when you get
		there.

				KELLY
		I don't even know this woman.

				MALCOLM
		Well, I do, and she's fantastic.
		She'll take you to the museum, maybe
		to a movie if you play your cards
		right.  You're going to have a
		fantastic time.

				KELLY
		Stop saying fantastic.  Where are you
		going?

				MALCOLM
		I can't tell you.  But I'll be back
		within a week.

				KELLY
		My vacation is over in a week.

				MALCOLM
		I'll make it up to you this summer.
		I promise.

				KELLY
		I'm your daughter all the time, you
		know.  Not just when it's convenient.

				MALCOLM
		Very hurtful.  Your mother tell you
		to say that?

				KELLY
		No, Dad.  I have thoughts of my own
		once in a while.

	From the construction floor, EDDIE calls out.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
		Dr. Malcolm!

	Malcolm looks at her, trying to make peace.  Quickly.

				MALCOLM
		Is that kid still bothering you?

				KELLY
		Which one?

				MALCOLM
		You know, at the bus stop.  With the
		hair?

				KELLY
		That was about a year ago.

				MALCOLM
		Well, is he?

				KELLY
		No.  Richard talked to his parents.

				MALCOLM
		That Richard.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
		Ian, come here a minute!

				KELLY
			(to Malcolm)
		I could come with you.

				MALCOLM
		Out of the question.  You'd miss the
		gymnastics trials.  You've been
		training for that for a year.

				KELLY
		I don't care about the trials, I
		want to be with you.  I could be your
		research assistant, like I was in
		Austin.

				MALCOLM
		This is nothing like Austin.  Forget
		about it.

				KELLY
		You like to have kids, you just
		don't want to be with them, do you?

	He looks at her, hurt.  Eddie calls out a third time,
	impatient now.  Grateful for the escape, Malcolm gets up and
	heads for the door.  He pauses guiltily.

				MALCOLM
		I'm not like you wan me to be.  I've
		what I can be.

	He leaves.

	INT. MAIN FLOOR - DAY

	While MALCOLM and EDDIE argue over something in the
	background, KELLY circles around the trailers and looks up at
	the windows.  They're all made of tempered glass, fine wire
	mesh inside it.  She looks around, to see if anybody's
	watching.  They're not, so she quickly slips inside the front
	trailer.

	INT. TRAILER - DAY

	Inside, the trailer is a miracle of planning and design.  It's
	divided into sections, for different laboratory functions.
	The main area is a biological lab, with specimen trays,
	dissecting pans, and microscopes that connect to video
	monitors.

	Next to it there's an extensive computer section, a bank of
	processors, and a communications section.  All the lab
	equipment is miniaturized and built into small tables that
	slides into the walls.  Everything is bolted down.

	She notices a large map on the wall.  Off the coat of Costa
	Rica, there is an area that has been circled in heavy black
	ink.

	Kelly puts a finger on the map, crossing westward, through the
	Pacific Ocean.  Thegre are dozen s of islands out here, but in
	the highlighted region, there is a semi-circle of five.
	Matanceros.  Muerte.  Tacano.  Pena.  And Sorna.  Underneath
	the whole island chain, there is a bold legend.

	"The Five Deaths," it says.

	Slowly, an ocean barge starts to chug its way across the
	face of the map, leaving a wake that rolls the printed letters
	of those three ominous words.

							DISSOLVE TO:

	EXT. OPEN SEA - DAY

	The map dissolves slowly away as the barge SPALASEHS through
	five foot ocean swells in the open sea.  The barge is crammed
	with equipment, the AAV, trailers, a jeep, and the members of
	Malcolm's team.

	ON THE BOAT,

	MALCOLM stands in the bow, riding the choppy seas.  Next to
	him, DR. JUTTSON, fortyish, holds onto the railing,
	seasick.  He SHOUTS over the DRONE of the boat's engines.

				JUTTISON
			(as the waves pound the
			 boat)
		Couldn't -- we just -- airlift --
		into the -- island?

				MALCOLM
		Dr. Harding insisted we go by sea!
		Helicopters are too disruptive.
		These aren't piles of bones you'll be
		studying this time, Dr. Juttson, they
		live, they breathe, and they react!

	Juttson looks at him skeptically --

	-- and throws up.

	AT THE BACK OF THE BOAT,

	NICK VAN OWEN, a good-looking American in his late
	twenties, is sitting amid a pile of video cameras and other
	photographic equipment, playing with a Game Bow.  SARAH
	HARDING, dressed in field gear, sits down next to him.

				SARAH
		So what's your story, Nick?

				NICK
		I was a cameraman for Nightline for
		six years, been freelance since '91.
		Do a lot of work for Greenpeace.

				SARAH
		That must be interesting.  What drew
		you there?

				NICK
		Women.  'Bout eighty percent female
		in Greenpeace.

				SARAH
		Very noble of you.
			(of the noisy Game Boy)
		You don't think you're bringing that
		thing onto the island, do you?

	Nick grins and shuts it off.

				NICK
		Hey, I wouldn't want to spook the
		woolly mammoths.

				SARAH
		You think this is all a joke?

				NICK
		Oh, please.  How am I supposed to
		keep a straight face when --
			(gestures to the
			 black-clad Malcolm)
		-- Johnny Cash here tells me I'm
		going to Skull Island?

				SARAH
			(not amused)
		Ian's a very good friend of mine.

				NICK
		He doesn't need a friend, he needs a
		shrink.

				SARAH
		I believe in him.

	But her face says even she has her doubts.

				NICK
		Come on, there's only one reason any
		of us are here.  His check cleared.

	She looks at him.

				SARAH
		Drop the cynical pose.  You can't
		pull it off while playing Donkey
		Kong.

	The boat's CAPTAIN, a Costa Rican, points ahead and SHOUTS to
	them.

				CAPTAIN
		There it is!

	They all turn and look out over the bow.  Up ahead, shear,
	reddish-gray cliffs of volcanic rock rise dramatically out of
	the fog-heavy ocean.

				CAPTAIN (cont'd)
		Isla Sorna!

	The boat ROARS ahead, plowing into a heavy wreath of fog.  The
	mist swirls and encircles it.

	EXT. ISLAND FIORD - DAY

	A narrow inlet cuts through the steep cliffs, leading to the
	island interior.  The barge bursts through the fog at the
	mouth of the fiord and heads deeper into the island.

	EXT. LAGOON - DAY

	Lush green plants drip everywhere in this verdant lagoon.
	Sulfurous yellow steam issues from the ground, bleaching the
	nearby foliage white.  In the distance one can hear the cries
	of JUNGLE BIRDS.

	The boat is now beached and the CREW flips the tarps off the
	AAV, the jeep, and the trailers.  The trucks back down a
	narrow ramp and onto the soft clay shore at the edge of the
	lagoon.  There is a large three-toad animal imprint in the
	clay at the water's edge, and the AAV backs right over it,
	swapping its track for the animal's.

	MALCOLM is at the edge of the water with the CAPTAIN.

				MALCOLM
		Be back in three days, but keep the
		satellite phone on and your radio
		tuned to the frequency I specified in
		case we need you sooner.

				CAPTAIN
		Don't worry.  I've lived around here
		all my life, these islands are
		completely --

	In the distance, they hear the faint, strange ROAR of a very
	large animal.  The Captain looks at Malcolm, eyes wide.

				CAPTAIN (cont'd)
		-- safe.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. GRASSY PLAIN - DAY

	The jeep tows the double trailer to the edge of a grassy plain
	just beyond the lagoon, overlooking the interior of the
	island.  The noon sun is high overhead; below, the valley
	shimmers in midday heat.

	EDDIE connects a flexible cable to the jeep's power winch and
	flicks it on.  The cable turns slowly in the sunlight.  Moving
	along the length of it, we see the cable leads to a pile of
	aluminum, some kind of strut assembly painted a camouflage
	color.

	As the winch pulls the cable tight, the jumble of thin struts
	begins to move, slowly rising into the air.  The emerging
	structure climbs, spidery, struts unfolding, fifteen feet into
	the air.  The light house at the top (the cage that was
	tested back at Eddie's workshop) is now just beneath the
	lowest branches of the nearby trees, which almost conceal it
	from view.

	NICK lights a cigarette and carelessly tosses the match on the
	ground.  Malcolm notices.

				MALCOLM
		Listen.  I know you all have probably
		concluded that I'm out of my mind.

	Is it our imagination, or did the trees behind Malcolm just
	sway slightly?

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		That's all right, for now.  But just
		humor me and be careful.

	No, it's not our imagination, there they go again.  Whole
	trees shivering and swaying from left to right and back
	again.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Even if you think I'm harmless and
		deluded, I promise --

	Now the trees CREAKS and GROAN as they sway.  Everyone has seen
	it, and now Malcolm turns around too.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		-- this place is for real.

							CUT TO:

	INT. DOUBLE TRAILERS - DAY

	It's quiet inside the trailers that serve as their command
	post/living quarters.  The books are lined up neatly on the
	shelves.  The computers sit, booted up and awaiting data
	input.

	All the way in the back, past the spare tires and life
	preservers and canned food and bottled water, up in one
	storage bin all the way on top, there's a RUSTLING SOUND.

	A plastic student ID card pops out in the cracks under the
	bin's door.  A photograph in the lower right hand corner of
	the card is visible -- it's Kelly, Malcolm's twelve-year-old
	daughter.

	The card wriggles against the lock and, with a soft CLICK, the
	door pops open.  KELLY herself tumbles out, wrapped in several
	blankets and carrying a mason jar half full of a yellowish
	liquid.  We can guess.

	She leaps to her feet, blinks the light out of her eyes, and
	bolts to the back of the trailer as fast as she possibly can.
	She races through a narrow door and SLAMS it shut.

	A sign on the door says "RESTROOM."  Inside, a SIGH of relief
	is heard.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE TRAIL - DAY

	Along a stream bed, the jungle trees still shiver.  NICK loads
	a three quarter inch tape into his heavy video camera and
	chews anxiously on a piece of gum.  SARAH and DR. JUTTSON are
	beside him as the group nervously follows the GROANING forest
	trees to their right.

	At the rear, EDDIE and MALCOLM walk side by side.  Eddie is
	carrying a heavy silver rifle, an aluminum canister hanging
	beneath the barrel.  He shows it to Malcolm, his voice low and
	urgent.

				EDDIE
		Lindstradt air rifle.  Fires a
		subsonic Fluger impact-delivery dart.

	He cracks open the cartridge bank, revealing a row of plastic
	containers filled with straw-colored liquid.  Each is tipped
	with a three inch needle and carries a bright yellow warning
	tag -- "EXTREME DANGER!  LETHAL TOXICITY!"

				EDDIE (cont'd)
		I loaded the enhanced venom of Conus
		purpurascens, the South Sea cone
		shell.  Most powerful neurotoxin in
		the world.  Acts within a
		two-thousandth of a second.  Faster
		than the nerve-conduction velocity.
		The animal's down before it feels the
		prick of the dart.

	From their right, the shaking trees seen closer now.  By
	walking down the stream bed, the humans are tracking right
	along with the animals as they move in the foliage.

				MALCOLM
			(to Eddie)
		Is there an antidote?

				EDDIE
		Like if you shoot yourself in the
		foot?  Wouldn't matter.  You'd be
		dead  before you realized you'd
		accidentally pulled the trigger.

	Ahead of them, thick foliage blocks the path of the dried up
	stream bed to the height of about fifteen feet.  But around
	them, the CRASHING sounds get louder and closer, the swaying
	trees shiver right beside them.  Eddie raises the rifle in
	defense as the trees right at the edge of the stream bed sway
	and part.  Above the foliage, they see the sudden
	movement --

	-- of a row of STEGOSAUR fins.  The spade-shaped fins run
	along a ridge down the middle of the animal's back, about
	three feet tall each.  The group freezes, amazed, and as the
	stegosaur continues on, they get a good look at it through a
	break in the foliage.

	It's a large dinosaur with a small head, a thick neck, and a
	huge lumbering body.

	A double row of plates runs along the crest of its back, and
	it has a dragging trail with long spikes in it.

	The gum drops out of Nick's mouth, FLOPS onto his shirt, and
	sticks there.

				NICK
		Oh --

				JUTTSON
		-- my --

				EDDIE
		-- God!

				SARAH
		It's beautiful!

	A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the
	first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult.

	While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and
	a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of
	the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet.

	Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their
	environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed.

	Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures.  Her shutter
	is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible.

	Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into
	it breathlessly.

				JUTTSON
		Stegosaurus, family Stegosauridae,
		infraorder Stegosauria, suborder
		Thyreophora.  Length, adult male,
		estimate twenty-five to thirty feet.

	His breathy words turn into almost helpless laughter, of all
	things, as he can't contain his astonishment.  Eddie covers
	his mouth, trying to keep him quiet.

				SARAH
			(to Juttsn)
		That was a pair bond!  A family
		group, even, long after that infant
		was nestbound!

				JUTTSON
		I want to see the nesting ground!

	Nick turns to Malcolm, eyes like saucers, and makes a futile,
	wordless, boy-was-I-wrong-on-this-one gesture.  Malcolm
	smiles, leans over, and TAPS softly on Nick's video camera.
	Nick raises it to his shoulder and flicks it on as the group
	continues on into the bush after the animals.

	IN THE BUSH,

	the baby wanders away from the group and ambles over near
	where Sarah crouches in the bushes.  Sarah raises her camera
	again and silently SNAPS a picture.  She WHISPERS to Juttson,
	who is beside her.

				SARAH
		Lone nest -- not colonial.  I don't
		see an egg clutch...

	She gestures and Juttson peers through a pair of field
	glasses.

				JUTTSON
			(whispering back)
		The empty shells are crushed and
		trampled.  The young stay in the
		birth environment, that's conclusive!

				SARAH
		Not without a shot of the nest.

	She sees an opportunity.  As the baby heads back to its
	parents, Sarah scoots right along with it, moving behind it,
	using its body as a shield to block her from the view of the
	other two.

	Nick and Eddie's faces whiten in alarm.  Nick reaches out to
	stop her, but he barely gets hold of the sole of her boot
	before she pulls away from him and duckwalks out into the
	clearing.

	IN THE CLEARING,

	Sarah slinks along behind the baby stego as it walks back,
	toward the nest, chewing the branches it carries in its south.
	She raises up sightly, squeezing off pictures of the herd,
	ever better as she gets closer.

	BACK AT THE HILL,

	the others can only watch her, aghast.

				NICK
		She's gutty.

				MALCOLM
		She's nuts.

	IN THE CLEARING,

	Sarah keeps moving closer.  The baby passes a small grouping
	of rocks and Sarah ducks behind them.  She's now in a perfect
	position to photograph the nest, and she squeezes off picture
	after picture from this ideal vantage point.

	She shoots the last picture on the roll --

	-- and the camera's autowinder WHIRS to life.  Sarah looks
	down in horror as the camera's motor WHINES loudly in her
	hands.

	Th noise startles the animals.  The male turns toward her
	the plates on its back bristling.  Sarah gets to her feet and
	starts to move away, slowly.

	The male turns away from her and swings its tail, spikes
	extended.  It WHIZZES through the air, right at her, but Sarah
	leaps back at the last second --

	-- and the tail's spikes THUD into the dirt where she was.

	Sarah CRUNCHES to the ground and the three stegosaurs dart
	away, disappearing into the bush, moving surprisingly quickly
	for animals their size.

	The others run to Sarah, help her to her feet, and pull her
	back, against a massive tree trunk.  But the tree trunk lifts
	right up off the ground.

	It's no tree, it's a DINOSAUR'S LEG, a massive one, six feet
	across, God knows how many feet high.  The Group gasps and
	looks up as a MAKENCHIASAURUS, an enormous saurupod over a
	hundred feet from nose to tail,  lumbers away from them.

	The Group stares in wonder as the mamenchiasaur stops and
	HONKS furtively, its long neck stretched out above them.

	Now a second mamenchiasaur neck cranes out of the
	surrounding forest trees and wraps around the first.  The
	first mamenchiasaur THUNDERS around in a semi-circle, getting
	into position behind the second.

	Nick swings his video camera straight up and the group
	suddenly finds itself in the middle of a mamenchiasaur mating.

	The mighty tails swing and SNAP around them as the two animals
	come together, and trees start snapping and falling, CRASHING
	to the jungle floor.

	The group panics and bolts for cover toward the only place
	where the trees are not falling -- which is directly underneath
	the animals!

	Amid HONKS and BLEATS, the swinging tails continue to deforest
	the jungle around them.

	The noise and chaos is deafening, drowning out the LAUGHTER
	and SCREAMS of the fascinated and terrified group.

	There is a momentary lull and the group dashes out from
	underneath the animals, disappearing into the thick forest.

	A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY,

	the Group collapses to the ground, breathless, chests heaving
	with wild, frightened laughter.  Sarah goes to Malcolm and
	throws her arms around him, exhilarated.

				SARAH
		Ian, you're not insane!  I'm so
		glad!

				JUTTSON
			(out of breath)
		Dr. Malcolm -- the world -- owes you
		an apology.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE TRAIL - DAY

	Suddenly, the Gathereres are taking their expedition a lot more
	seriously.  They march quickly back to base camp, their energy
	and excitement palpable.  NICK strikes a match and raises it
	to a cigarette with a shaking hand, but SARAH leans in and
	blows it out.

				SARAH
		No more smoking.  We leave no scent
		of any kind.  No hair tonics, no
		cologne, seal all our food in plastic
		bags.  We will observe and document,
		but we will not interact.

				MALCOLM
		That's a scientific impossibility,
		you know.  Heisenberg uncertainty
		principle.  Whatever you study, you
		also change.

	Nick ejects the used videotape from his camera and pulls out a
	sharpie, to label it.

				NICK
		What should I call this?  "Jurassic
		Pork?"

	Eddie, next to him, laughs.

				SARAH
			(still to Malcolm)
		And let's forget about the high hide.
		We can't do this kind of work up in a
		tower, we need to be out in the
		field, as close to the animals as
		possible.

				JUTTSON
		I'm not surprised stegosaur lived in
		a family group, but there's never
		been anything in the fossil record to
		prove the carnivores did.

				SARAH
		Why wouldn't they?  Look at hyenas,
		jackals, nearly all species of
		predator birds --

				JUTTSON
		That doesn't say a thing about T-rex,
		they could have been rogues.  Robert
		Burke certainly thinks they were.

				SARAH
		We've got to see one to find out.
		Is there any --

				MALCOLM
		No way.

				NICK
		Oh, my God.

				SARAH
		-- way we could safely --

				NICK
		Oh, no!

	He takes off, running as fast as he can, down the trail,
	toward base camp.  They look ahead, in the direction Nick is
	running.  A plume of black smoke is rising up over the trees.

				EDDIE
		Fire!

							CUT TO:

	EXT. BASE CAMP - DAY

	NICK bursts out of the trees and races toward the thick plume
	of smoke.  In the middle of the base camp, someone has neatly
	built a campfire surrounded by stones.  Flames burn in the
	middle.

	Nick races over to it and stomps it out as the OTHERS emerge
	from the trees behind him.

				MALCOLM
		A campfire?!

	Nick grabs a jug of water, but Sarah steps in.

				SARAH
		No!  Water mixes the smoke billow,
		use dirt!

	They start to kick and rake dirt onto the fire with their
	hands and feet.  Eddie and Dr. Juttson jump in and help out.

				MALCOLM
		Who the hell started a campfire?!

				VOICE (o.s.)
		It was just to make lunch.

	Malcolm turns toward the source of the voice.  KELLY stands in
	the doorway of the trailer, sheepish.

				KELLY (cont'd)
			I wanted it ready when you got back.

	The whole group stares, stunned, none more so than Malcolm
	himself.

				MALCOLM
		Oh ... man.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. BASE CAMP - LATER

	Later, and base camp is a blur of activity.  SARAH, JUTTSON,
	NICK, and EDDIE are hard at work, burying the remains of the
	fire, sealing their food in plastic bags, loading camera
	equipment, packing up specimen containers and other
	information-gathering equipment.

	MALCOLM, meanwhile, is lecturing Kelly.

				MALCOLM
		You know you were putting yourself in
		a potentially dangerous situation,
		but you didn't bother to find out
		how dangerous before you leapt in.
		You don't have the faintest idea
		what's going on on this island!

				SARAH
			(loading a backpack)
		What do you want to do, Ian, lock her
		up for curiosity?  Where do you think
		she gets it?

				JUTTSON
			(to Nick)
		Do you have chromium tapes?  The
		others fog in high-

				NICK
		-humidity, I know.
			(waving a tape)
		Highest lead density on the market.

				EDDIE
			(to Malcolm)
		We've got a lot of heavy marching
		ahead of us.  I'm not carrying 
		anybody.

				KELLY
		I can keep up.

				MALCOLM
		You're going home.  I'm sending a
		radio call for the boats.  We'll all
		go down to the lagoon and wait for
		them.

				SARAH
		Lighten up, Ian, you sound like a
		high school vice-principal.

				MALCOLM
		I'm her father.

				KELLY
		Sure, now.

	Nick leans over and whispers to Eddie, gesturing to Malcolm
	and Kelly.

				NICK
		Do you see any family resemblance
		here?

				MALCOLM
		You can't stay, Kelly, that's it.
		It's too dangerous.

				SARAH
		If it's so dangerous, why'd you bring
		any of us?

				KELLY
		You're wrong, Dad.  I do know
		what's going on on this island.

				MALCOLM
		How could you possibly?

				KELLY
		Because you said so.  Maybe nobody
		else believed you, but I always
		did.

	He looks at her, touched.  Nick mutters to Eddie again.

				NICK
		The kid scores with cheap sentiment.

				SARAH
		Ian, if we recall the boat now, we've
		made two invasive landings in one
		day.  That'll have to go in any paper
		I write, and it will leave room for
		people to say our findings were
		contaminated.  You know the academic
		world as well as I do, once they
		smell blood in the water, you're
		dead.  Our presence has got to be one
		hundred percent antiseptic.  That
		means if we bend a blade of grass, we
		bend it right back the way it-

	A low sound has been rising while she speaks, and now it comes
	BOOMING over the jungle around them, a THUNDEROUS racket that
	shakes the very ground beneath them.  Suddenly, three C-130
	military cargo planes THUNDER overhead and ROAR toward the
	island interior, flying very low.  The planes are enormous,
	fat-assed creatures, their rear cargo doors hanging open.

	AT A RIDGE,

	the members of the gatherer expedition hit the dirt and peer
	over a ledge, watching as the airplanes bank and circle over a
	specific spot.

	Eddie raises a pair of field glasses.

	DOWN BELOW,

	huge metal equipment containers are shoved out the back of the
	cargo bays.  They SNAP off trees like matchsticks, CRUSH flat
	anything foolish enough to exist where they want to land.

	Now MEN pour out the rear of the planes, their low-altitude
	parachutes billowing open behind them.

	UP ON THE RIDGE,

	Nick looks at Sarah.

				NICK
		You were saying something about
		antiseptic?

							CUT TO:

	EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - DAY

	Metal container doors CLANG to the ground, jeep engines ROAR
	to life in a cloud of thick black diesel smoke, blue laser
	barriers SIZZLE and BURN through foliage as this group of
	HUNTERS establishes a perimeter around their new camp.

	PETER LUDLOW, dressed in brand new Banana Republic safari
	wear, steps into the center of the camp and surveys the
	surroundings.  He turns to DR. ROBERT BURKE, a ragged,
	pony-tailed man in wire-rimmed glasses.

				LUDLOW
		Welcome to your dream come true, Dr.
		Burke.

	Burke has a detailed set of satellite recon photographs that
	he spreads out on the hood of a jeep.

				BURKE
		I believe the large herbivores forage
		in open plains, like bison, which
		would explain the great variety of
		heat dots we're reading in the
		flatlands around this waterhole.
		Right -- here.

				LUDLOW
		Then that's where we're going.

	Burke flips open a manifest that he will carry with him at all
	times.  Inside, there are dozens of sketches of various kinds
	underneath.  As each vehicle ROARS out of the equipment
	container, Burke slips a waterproof eight by ten card with an
	icon of the various dinosaurs on the island into a slot in the
	dashboard.

				BURKE
			(calling them off)
		Hadrosaurus!  Carinthosaurus!
		Maiasaurus!

	As the procession goes on, Ludlow turns to DIETER STARK, the
	man we saw welding earlier.

				LUDLOW
		This is as good a place as any for
		base camp.  First priority is the
		laser barriers, I want them all up
		and running in thirty minutes.  Half
		an hour, understand?

	Dieter nods and turns to some of the HUNTERS, who number about
	twenty in all, that are working nearby.  But someone steps in
	front of Dieter, cutting him off.  It's ROLAND TEMBO, the
	hunter from the bar in Mombassa.

				ROLAND
		Cancel that, Dieter.

				LUDLOW
		What?  Why?

	Roland points to a stream running nearby.

				ROLAND
		Carnivores hunt near stream beds.  Do
		you want to set up base camp or an
		all-you-can-eat people bar?

				LUDLOW
			(thinks)
		You heard his, Dieter.  Find a new
		spot.  And remember, we're after
		herbivores only -- no unnecessary
		risks.

	Dieter SIGHS and goes to work.  Roland puts an arm around
	Ludlow and pulls him aside.

				ROLAND
		Peter, if you want me to run your
		little camping trip, there are two
		conditions.  First -- I'm in
		charge, and when I'm not around,
		Dieter is.  Your job is to sign the
		checks, tell us we're doing a good
		job, and open your case of scotch
		when we have a good day.  Second
		condition -- my fee.  You can keep
		it.  All I want in exchange for my
		services is the right to hunt one of
		the tyrannosaurs.  A male.  Buck
		only.  Why and how are my business.
		If you don't  like either of those
		conditions, you're on your own.  Go
		ahead and set up your camp right
		here, or in a swamp, or in the middle
		of a rex nest, for all I care.  But
		I've been on too many safaris with
		rich dentists to listen to any more
		suicidal ideas.  Okay?

				LUDLOW
			(what else can he say?)
		Okay.

				ROLAND
		Good lad.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE

	The jungle foliage shivers, quakes, and finally falls as the
	Hunters' convoy ROARS into the hart of the jungle.  DIETER
	STARK stands in the front of the lead vehicle, the
	"speedbird," waving the convoy forward, his Driver (CARTER) at
	the wheel beside him.

	LUDLOW is in the back seat of the speedbird next to DR. BURKE.
	ROLAND and AJAY, his tracker, are in the second jeep.  They
	look up as the brakelights on the speedbird flash and the car
	stops, forcing the rest of the convoy to halt as well.

	In the front, the speedbird flashes its lights at something in
	front of it.  Dieter climbs out, plainly irritated.  He walks
	around the front of the car and sees --

	-- four PACHYCEPHALOSAURS eating grass in the middle of the
	jungle trail.  They're about five feet tall, thick, heavy-set
	animals whose distinctive feature is an enormous skull casing,
	a tall, impressive crown that rises on the tops of their
	heads.  Dieter doesn't seem impressed.  He looks back at
	Ludlow, who look at Dr. Burke.

	Burke stands up in his seat, a look of wonder on his face.

				BURKE
		Pachycephalosaurus!

				LUDLOW
		Carnivore?

				BURKE
			(enchanted)
		Huh?  No!  No, herbivore, late
		Cretaceous.  Very unusual plant
		eater, see that distinctive domed
		skull?  That's nine inches of solid
		bone.

				LUDLOW
			(who cares?)
		Just get them out of the way, Dieter.

				DIETER
		COME ON, MOVE IT!!

	The pachys look up at him sluggishly, still eating, like cows
	chewing their cuds.  As unimpressive with him as he is with
	them, they go back to their grass.

				DIETER (cont'd)
		Oh, for God's --

	He slings his rifle off his  shoulder and aims it at the
	closest animal.  Behind him, Roland has climbed out of the
	second jeep.

				ROLAND
		Dieter.  This is a round-up, not a
		war.  Use your powers of persuasion.

	Dieter gestures to the speedbird to pull ahead, which it does,
	slowly, toward the animals.  The pachys look up, alert, but do
	not move.  Dieter walks toward them.

				DIETER
		Come on, come on, don't have all
		day!

				BURKE
			(going on to no one in
			 particular)
		See, the pachy's neck attaches at the
		bottom of its skull instead of the
		back of its head, as with reptiles.

	The speedbird draws closer.  The first pachy stares at it
	intently.  The lead vehicle gets closer, closer --

	-- and BANGS into the pachy, knocking it back a few feet, out
	of the way.

				BURKE (cont'd)
		So when it lowers its head, its neck
		lines up directly with its
		backbone --

	BEHIND DIETER,

	Ajay is staring at something on the ground at his feet.  He
	takes a few steps further into the foliage, then turns back
	toward Roland.

				AJAY
		Roland.

	UP AT THE FRONT,

	the pachys turn and hop away.  Dieter turns and heads back to
	the speedbird.  As he reaches for the door, a VOICE calls
	"look out!" from behind him.  Dieter spins around, just in
	time to see --

	-- the first pachy in full charge.  It SLAMS headfirst into
	the speedbird, SMASHING the headlights and denting the grill.

				BURKE
			(concluding his lecture)
		Which is perfect for absorbing
		impact.

	Dieter turns and runs around to the front of the car.  The
	pachy has backed up  for another run and is now CHARGING RIGHT
	AT HIM.

	Dieter retreats, quickly, and rips open the passenger door to
	protect himself.

	SLAM!  The pachy clobbers the door, sending Dieter flying
	against the car, knocking the wind out of him.

	In the other jeeps, the rest of the HUNTERS stand up or lean
	out the window for a better look, laughing.

	POW!!  The pachy head-butts the tire next to Dieter.  It
	bounces off, tumbles to the ground, and rolls to its feet as
	Dieter gets to his knees and crawls toward the back of the
	speedbird.

	But the pachy is quicker and lunges at Dieter again.  He's
	forced to hit the dirt and crawls quickly underneath the
	speedbird, just as the animal SLAMS into the rear of the
	vehicle.

	Now the other three animals join the jun.  Ludlow and the
	Driver have to cover their heads as the animals lunge at the
	car again and again, SMASHING the steel-meshed windows and
	MANGLING the quarter panels.  The rest of the group watches,
	vastly amused.

	A FEW STEPS INTO THE JUNGLE,

	Ajay and Roland are staring at something on the ground -- an
	animal footprint, three-toed, enormous.

				AJAY
		It matches the pictures.

				ROLAND
		It certainly does.

	Roland gets up and goes back to his vehicle, ignoring the
	pachy demolition derby that continues up at the speedbird.
	Roland opens a case in the back of the jeep, revealing --

	-- his gun.  It's an antique elephant gun, a double barreled
	.600 Nitro Express.  Nearly a hundred years old, it's still in
	immaculate condition, its rosewood stock buttery smooth,
	bisons delicately engraved along its silver breach.

	The barrels are twenty-four inches long, topped with an ivory
	bead foresight at the business end.  Roland scoops up the gun,
	breaks the breach, and pulls two rounds of ammunition from his
	shirt pocket.

	Four inches long and three-quarters of an inch in diameter,
	these are the largest full metal jacket cartridges ever made.
	He slips one into each barrel and heads back into the bush.

	Roland pauses before he goes, as if noticing the animals
	trashing the speedbird for the first time.

				ROLAND
		HEY!

	The pachys all freeze, staring at him.  Roland waves one hand,
	HISSES sharply between his teeth --

	-- and the pachys scatter, back into the jungle.  Takes care
	of that problem.  Roland turns and heads back into the jungle,
	calling out over his shoulder to Ludlow.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		Don't worry about us.  We'll catch
		up.

				LUDLOW
		Where do you think you're going?!

				ROLAND
		To collect my fee.

	And with that he disappears into the foliage.

	The Driver of the Speedbird drops it into gear and the
	battered car GROANS forward.  As it moves ahead, it reveals
	DIETER, lying underneath it, ego bruised worse than body.

	IN THE JUNGLE,

	Ajay takes a step into the bush, but at a ninety degree
	angle away from the direction in which the animals tracks
	lead.

				ROLAND
		Ajay.

	Ajay turns.  Roland points in the direction in which the
	footprints lead.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		I'm no tracker, but even I can read
		this spoor.

				AJAY
		Do you wish to go where the animal
		has been, or where the animal is?

	Roland smiles.  Ajay sets off in his direction and Roland
	follows.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. ISLAND RIDGE - DAY

	Seen from a ridge above them, the hunters' convoy continues to
	plow through the jungle.  But how the hunters themselves are
	being tracked, followed by the GATHERERS.  They scurry along
	as fast as they can, trying to keep pace with the moving
	vehicle below.

				EDDIE
		Why didn't you tell us about these
		guys, Ian?!

				MALCOLM
		Because I didn't know!  I don't have
		the faintest idea what they're doing
		here.

				NICK
			(angry)
		Ruining everything, that's what
		they're doing.  You could choke on
		the diesel smoke already!

				SARAH
		Ian, nothing we observe will be valid
		if we're trailing along in the wake
		of an army.

	Kelly has a pair of binoculars and is studying the vehicles as
	they move below.

				KELLY
		"InGen."  What's InGen?

				MALCOLM
		Where does it say that?

				KELLY
		On the side of that one truck.

	Malcolm takes the binoculars and stares down there himself.

				JUTTSON
		InGen is a genetics corporation,
		isn't it?

				NICK
			(to Malcolm)
		Is that who we're really working
		for?!  Gene splicers?!

				MALCOLM
		No!  We're an independently funded
		expedition.

				SARAH
		Funded by whom?

				MALCOLM
		John Hammond.

				JUTTSON
		But he's the head of InGen!

				NICK
		You gotta be kidding.
			(to Malcolm)
		You dragged me out of Greenpeace to
		be a corporate stooge?  You couldn't
		get anybody else?

				KELLY
		Yeah, what have you done, Dad?

				SARAH
		We'd better keep moving, or we'll
		lose them.

	The group moves on ahead, but Malcolm lingers, angry, staring
	through the binoculars.

				MALCOLM
		What are you doing to me, John?

							CUT TO:

	EXT. THE CAVES - DAY

	AJAY and ROLAND make their way through the foliage and come
	into a small clearing, where a cluster of caves is carved into
	the rock.  Ajay freezes, gesturing ahead, to the cave on the
	far left.

	Roland pulls up a handful of grass and releases it on the
	breeze.  It floats back between his legs.  That's good.

	He proceeds toward the cave, carefully, Ajay behind him.  They
	can see nothing beyond the yawning mouth of the cave, only a
	black interior.

	Roland pauses, looking down.  On the ground to his right he
	sees the partially eastern leg of a creature.  It's old,
	crawling with white maggots and flies.

	Roland continues on.  Closer to the cave, he now passes the
	skull of a large animal, some of the flesh and green skin
	still adhering to the bone.  It, too, is covered with flies.

	Still he continues on.  A short rise leads into the cave, and
	they edge up it.  From inside the cave, they can hear an odd
	SQUEAKING sound, very high-pitched.

	Crawling now, Roland and Ajay scale a four-foot circular
	rampart of dried mud, and peer into --

	-- the tyrannosaur nest.  It's flattered inside, about ten
	feet in diameter, completely encircled by earthen walls.

	A BABY TYRANNOSAUR, about four and a half feet long, is in the
	center of the nest.  It has a large head, very large eyes, and
	its body is covered with a fluffy red down, which gives it a
	scraggly appearance.

	It SQUEAKS repeatedly, tearing awkwardly at the remains of a
	chunk of animal flesh, biting decisively with tiny, sharp
	teeth.

	The cave itself is a foul boneyard.  ANIMAL CARCASSES litter
	the edges, flies BUZZ in the captive air.  Roland raises a
	bandana to his nose to cover the stench.  He  turns to Ajay and
	WHISPERS.

				ROLAND
		It's the rex nest.

	Ajay nods.  The baby tyrannosaur hears the whisper and looks
	up, cocking its head in curiosity.

				AJAY
		Make a blind here?  Wait for the buck
		to return?

				ROLAND
			(shakes his head no)
		If the nest is upwind, so are we.
		When he comes back, he'll know we're
		here before we have a chance.  The
		truck --

	In the nest below, the baby SQUEAKS angrily at the intruders.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		-- is to get him to come where we
		want him.

	The baby SQUEAKS again, indignant.  Roland turns and looks
	down at it.  Thinking.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. RIDGE - DUSK

	As the sun glows bright orange on the horizon, NICK raises a
	pair of binoculars to his eyes and peers down at the vista
	below the ridge.

	In the lenses of the binoculars, we can clearly see a mixed
	herd of midsized herbivores -- HARDOSAURS, PACHYCEPHALOSAURS,
	and CALLIMIMUSES -- racing across the plain below.
	
	MALCOLM, also staring through binoculars, lies on the ridge
	beside him.  SARAH is several feet behind them, her back
	pressed against a tree, unwilling to go to the lip of the
	ridge.

	THROUGH NICK'S BINOCULARS

	We see a shaky point of view of the herd running.  The
	binoculars whip to the right --

	-- revealing a jeep chasing the herd  Not just one jeep, in
	fact, but a whole FLEET OF HUNTER PURSUIT VEHICLES!

	There are two herding jeeps, one motorcycle, as speedier
	mini-jeep, and, further behind, a container truck and a
	wrangler's pickup truck.

	Although there's a great deal of commotion below, up here it's
	almost eerily silent.

	ON THE RIDGE,

	Nick lowers the binoculars, angry.  When he raises them again,
	the sun FLARES off the lens --

	EXT. THE PLAIN - DUSK

	-- and when the brilliant flare clears, we're right down in
	the middle of the roundup.  Engines ROAR, wheels spin and dig
	in the dirt, men SHOUT and radios SQUAWK as the hunter
	vehicles pursue the fleeting herd they're flushed.

	The HUNTER SHOUT and SHRIEK with glee, incredulous and
	thrilled by the spectacular animals they're pursuing.

				HUNTER
		LOOK AT THESE THINGS!

				HUNTER 2
		THEY'RE BEAUTIFUL, MAN, THEY'RE
		BEAUTIFUL!!!

	One of the pursuit vehicles (a "snagger"), pulls ahead of the
	others.  DIETER STARK stands in the passenger seat, holding a
	long pole with a noose dangling from the end of it.

	He swings the pole out over the side of the jeep and SHOUTS to
	the driver.

				DIETER
		FASTER!

	The Driver hits the gas and the snagger leaps forward, gaining
	on the herd.  Aware of the danger behind them, the herd veers
	to the right, toward the cover of thick jungle --

	-- but the motorcycle ROARS in from the right side, cutting
	them off, herding them back out into the open.

	BACK IN THE CONTAINER TRUCK,

	PETER LUDLOW stands in a "conning tower," a command post in
	the heaviest pursuit vehicle.  He BARKS into a walkie-talkie.

				LUDLOW
		Alive, Dieter, and uninjured!

	BACK ON THE SNAGGER,

	the Driver can barely keep up with the twists and feints
	thrown by the herd ahead of him.  Dieter CURSES and throws the
	lasso pole into the back of the jeep.  Ludlow's voice
	continues over the radio in Dieter's jeep.

				LUDLOW (o.s.)
		Those are very expensive animals!
		Can you hear me?!

				DIETER
			(to the Driver)
		Turn that off!

	The Driver SNAPS off the radio as Dieter grabs a long-barreled
	rifle from the back of the vehicle.

	THE MOTORCYCLE

	guns it again, forcing the herd back into the middle of the 
	plain.  From the trees to the left, two heads on enormous
	necks rise up in alarm.  Two APATOSAURS are startled from the
	bush and lumber out across the middle of the plain.

	The herd doesn't even break stride, but keeps running,
	scampering after the giants and stampeding right between their
	massive legs.

	One smaller pachycephalosaur bolts loose, but the motorcycle
	cuts it off and herds it back into the middle, which now takes
	the motorcycle right through the rising and falling legs of
	the apotosaurs.

	The bike chases the pachy out the other side, and as the
	apatosaurs disappear into the distance, the cycle isolates the
	juvenile.

	Another truck, a "scissor rig," spots the isolated animal.
	High in the back of the truck, a HUNTER mans a tranquilizer
	cannon, drawing a bead on the pachy as the cycle runs it down.

	He FIRES and the tranquilizer dart hits the animal in the
	neck.  Its pace slows and another HUNTER from the truck tosses
	a lasso around its neck.

	They crank a winch, reeling in the animal.

	As the truck gain on it, two six-foot padded arms with what
	look like heavy airbags on the insides open up on the front of
	the truck.

	As the animal is pulled in, the scissors close with a
	hydraulic WHIR, trapping the animal between its airbags.

	Now a pick-up rig ROARS up and drops its back gate.  The
	scissor rig rolls forward, depositing the squirming pachy in
	this dino-contaiment vehicle.

	Two HUNTERS throw levers on the side of the scissor bars and
	the scissor rig backs away, leaving the animal, still pinched
	between the bars, imprisoned in the back of the pick-up rig.

	The Hunters quickly fit new scissor bars onto the scissor rig
	and it takes off, back into the hunt.

	BACK ON THE SNAGGER,

	Dieter, rifle in hand, drops down into the passenger seat,
	whips a harness over himself and CLICKS it into place.  He
	jabs his thumb into a flashing red button in the dashboard.

	Immediately, a motor underneath the seat HUMS to life and the
	seat itself telescopes, extending a good four feet out to

	Dieter raises the gun, picks a CARINTHOSAUR, a red-crested
	herbivore, from the rear of the fleeting herd, and takes aim.

	BANG!!

	The carinthosaur staggers as a tranquilizer dart sticks in
	its left hindquarter.

	UP ON THE RIDGE,

	there is utter quiet.  Nick and the others stare wordlessly at
	the spectacle below.

	DOWN ON THE PLAIN,

	the snagger SHUDDERS to a halt in the dirt, kicking up a huge
	cloud of dust and dirt.

	The motorcycle spins to a stop beside it, its DRIVER pushing
	his mask up to reveal his sweat and dirt-streaked face.

	The wrangler truck backs up and drops its rear door, which
	CLANGS heavily to the ground.

	FOUR WRANGLERS carrying wire noose poles and chains race down
	the ramp and out of the truck.

	Dieter jumps off the snagger.  He puts down his tranquilizer
	gun, picks up a long steel rod, and walks forward slowly.
	Ahead of him, the carinthosaur is still on its feet.

	The sedated animal staggers, fighting to retain its balance
	while it is surrounded by the wary Wranglers.

				DIETER
		Easy -- easy -- not too close!
		Full extension!

	The Wranglers adjust their poles, extending them another three
	feet, which allows them to stay further from the reeling, ten
	foot tall animal.

				DIETER (cont'd)
		Now!

	Almost as one, the Wranglers flip their noose over the
	stunned animal's neck.  It thrashes, but the Wranglers hold
	their poles tightly, surrounding and immobilizing it.

	UP ON THE RIDGE,

	Nick turns away.  He can't watch.

	DOWN ON THE PLAIN,

	a bolero-type device, a rope with a round weight at either
	end, whips around the carinthosaur's legs.  The animal THUDS
	to the dirt with a SNORT of a defeat.

	Ludlow steps up next to Dieter and both of them stare down at
	the helpless animal.  Ludlow's breathing heavily, eyes
	glowing.

	The animal is still thrashing, pumping its legs crazily.
	Dieter turns a knob on the side of the steel rod he's holding
	and thrusts it into the defenseless animal's neck.

	A blue arc of electricity CRACKS and dances over the
	carinthosaur's body.  The animal convulses in pain, a
	horrible, high-pitched SQUEALING rips the air.

	DR. BURKE, their paleontologist, hurries forward with a
	syringe.

	He draws a certain amount of tranquilizer from a bottle and
	injects it into the animal's thigh.

	CARTER, Dieter's Driver, steps up with a can of spray paint
	and quickly tags the animal with an ID number in day-glo
	orange.

	Dieter pulls the card with an icon of a carinthosaur from the
	dashboard of the jeep and marks a black X over the drawing of
	the animal.

				DIETER
		Next case.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. RIDGE - NIGHT

	Night has fallen over the island.  The hunters have
	established base camp in an area they have trampled and
	cleared just below the ridge.  Blue laser fences encircle the
	perimeter.  Inside, half a dozen tents are set up around a
	central campfire.

	The vehicles are all parked at one end, away from the tents.
	At the other end, there is a row of at least a dozen "capture
	containers," cages that hold the imprisoned dinosaurs they
	have already rounded up.

	SARAH, MALCOLM, and NICK stand at the edge of the ridge above,
	looking down at the scene.  Sarah stands a bit further back
	from the others, not wanting to get too close to the edge.
	VOICES waft up to them, raucous, LAUGHING, some even SINGING.

	DR. JUTTSON has a pair of night-vision binoculars trained on
	the cages.

				JUTTSON
		Carinthosaurus -- compsognathus --
		triceratops -- pachycephalosaurus --
		or small scavengers only.

	Malcolm, also with binoculars, furrows his brow, seeing
	something below.

	THROUGH MALCOLM'S BINOCULARS,

	he sees PETER LUDLOW, standing in the middle of the camp,
	pointing, giving orders.

	ON THE RIDGE,

	Malcolm drops the binoculars.

				MALCOLM
		Ludlow.  That's why Hammond was in
		such a hurry for me to get here.  He
		knew they were coming.

	He gives the binoculars to Sarah, who moves forward gingerly.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		You okay?

				SARAH
			(irritated)
		Heights, I can't help it.  Put your
		arm here, will you?

	She puts his arm around her waits, to steady her while she is
	close to the cliff edge.

				JUTTSON
		What do they want?

				MALCOLM
		They want their money back.  To
		InGen, this island is nothing more
		than a bed investment.

				JUTTSON
		We should get back to base camp.
		Eddie's waiting for us.

				MALCOLM
		I can't believe Peter Ludlow's
		running all this.

				SARAH
		He isn't.  Check out the guy walking
		past the fire.

	She hands the binoculars to Malcolm.

	THROUGH THE BINOCULARS,

	Malcolm sees ROLAND, who's walking with AJAY, weapons and
	equipment slung over their shoulders.

				SARAH (o.s.)
		I've seen him before.  In Brazil.  He
		and that guy with him were
		spearhunting jaguars.  Said it was
		immoral to go after them any other
		way.  He's not just a hunter, he's a
		philosopher.  Kind of guy who beats
		you up with your own argument.

	BACK ON THE RIDGE,

				SARAH (cont'd)
		He's the one in charge.

				MALCOLM
		Well, if that's true -- the man in
		charge just left camp.

	Nick, who has been quietly fuming next to them, now steps
	forward.

				NICK
		Then this is our chance.

				MALCOLM
		Our chance to do what?

				NICK
		I don't know these guys, but I know
		'em.  I've seen 'em on Japanese
		whalers, French barges trying to dump
		barrels of nuclear waste in the North
		Atlantic.  They're all the same.
		They spray us with water cannon when
		we try to stop 'em, sink our boats,
		and then call us crazy.

	He rummages through his pack, coming up with various tools.  A
	hunting knife.  A bolt cutter.

				NICK (cont'd)
		Nobody has to come with me.  I've
		done this before.

				SARAH
		Why, Nick.  You are a tree-hugger.

	He looks at her, hurt.

				NICK
		There' no reason for name calling.

				MALCOLM
		Dr. Juttson, please take Kelly back
		to camp right away.  Leave the other
		car for us and we'll meet you there
		in an hour or so.

				KELLY
		What are you guys gonna do?

				MALCOLM
			(signs)
		Exactly what John Hammond wanted us
		to do.

							CUT TO:

	INT. TENT - HUNTER'S CAMP - NIGHT

	In the hunters' supply tent, a case of twelve-year-old scotch
	sits open amid crate after crate of weapons and ammunition.
	PETER LUDLOW reaches in and pulls a bottle out.

	EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

	In the jungle, LUDLOW approaches a small clearing.  ROLAND is
	bent over a small stake in the ground, chaining something to
	it.  As Ludlow approaches and walks around him, he sees what
	protest.  Roland looks up.

				ROLAND
		Offering a little incentive.

	Ludlow laughs and shakes his head.  He takes a drink and
	offers Roland one.  Roland accepts.  Ludlow notices Roland's
	gun leaning against a tree.

				LUDLOW
		What kind of gun is that?

				ROLAND
		My father's .600 Nitro Express.  Made
		in 1904.  Karimojo Bell gave it to
		him after he took down his last
		elephant.  8700 foot pound striking
		force.

				LUDLOW
		How close do you have to be?

				ROLAND
		Forty yards.  Less, maybe.  I assume
		it'll take a slug in the brain case
		to bring him down.

				LUDLOW
		Why not just use a scope and a poison
		dart and snipe him from a hill?

	Roland just looks at him.

				ROLAND
		Or a laser beam from a satellite?

	Ludlow leans down, close to the baby rex, and examines it
	while it thrashes on its chain.  Its mouth has been bound shut
	with a leather strap.

				LUDLOW
		You rally think this'll draw the
		parent?

				ROLAND
		I once saw a bull elephant die
		charging a jeep.  All the jeep had
		done was startle the bull's calves.
		I saw a lioness carry wounded prey
		four and a half miles, all the way
		back to its den, just to teach its
		cubs how to finish off a kill.

				LUDLOW
		Killing lessons?  Heartwarming.

				ROLAND
		Rex won't be any different.  It'll
		come.

				LUDLOW
		You're kidding yourself.  An adult
		T-rex cares about one thing --
		filling its own belly.  It acts the
		way people wish they could, that's
		why everyone's fascinated by it.  If
		people had the chance to see one
		dinosaur and one only, ninety-nine
		percent would --

	He stops, an idea on his face.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		Wait.  Why not?  Sedatives...
		growth inhibitors...

				ROLAND
		What?

				LUDLOW
		I hadn't planned on bringing
		carnivores back because of the
		liability risk, but I only thought of
		adults, it never occurred to me --
			(close to the animal)
		You are a billion dollar idea, my
		little f-

	CRACK!  The tyrannosaur, even with its jaws clamped shut,
	lunges at Ludlow's face, head-butting him right across the
	bridge of the nose.  Ludlow staggers back, WAITING in pain,
	clutching his bleeding face.

	Roland laughs.  Ludlow, like an enraged child, snatches up
	Roland's gun and brings the butt down viciously on the rex's
	leg.  The bone breaks with a dry SNAP and the animal HOWLS in
	pain.

	Roland lunges and throws Ludlow to the ground, but the damage
	is done.

				ROLAND
		What the hell you do that for?!

	As his pain eases, Ludlow feels a bit foolish, but he attempts
	to cover.

				LUDLOW
		Had to.  To keep him still for the
		trip.

				ROLAND
		You've broken its leg!

				LUDLOW
		We've got to transport it seven
		thousand miles.  Would you prefer it
		bit off the leg of a crew member?

	He gets up, brushes himself off, and heads back to the camp,
	trying to salvage his dignity.  Roland watches him go.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. EDGE OF HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

	At the edge of the hunters' camp, NICK, SARAH, and MALCOLM
	scramble down a hillside and stop at the edge of the laser
	barriers.  There are three beams, each about two feet apart,
	the tallest almost six feet off the ground.

	Nick reaches the edge and crouches.  Sarah, helped by Malcolm,
	steps up onto his back and jumps over the top, landing with a
	CRUNCH.  Nick is next, given a boost by Malcolm, who is then
	left alone on the other side.

	He backs up a few steps, jogs right at the lasers, then
	springs off his good leg --

	-- and does the Fosburry Flop right over the top.  He lands
	with a THUD, to the silent admiration of the other two.

	FURTHER IN THE CAMP,

	the three of them creep along, hiding behind a stack of fuel
	barrels.  They lean around the edge for a look.  They're
	directly behind the row of vehicle.

	They move, into the open, covering the ground between them and
	the jeeps.  Reaching them, Nick hits the dirt and wriggles
	under the first one.  Malcolm and Sarah stand lookout.

	UNDER THE JEEP,

	Nick pulls the bolt cutter from his back pocket.  He squirms
	along until he finds the jeep's fuel line --

	-- and he snips it.  He ducks out of the way just as the
	stream of fuel begins to pour into the dirt.

	MALCOLM AND SARAH

	move slowly down the line, standing watch as Nick crawls out
	from under the first jeep and proceeds to the second.  They
	hear another SNIP, then keep moving, to cover him as he moves
	to the third.

	From in the distance, Malcolm hears a sound, a faint,
	high-pitched SCREECHING.  He turns and looks to that
	direction.

	EXT. JUNGLE CLEARING - NIGHT

	It's the baby T-rex, still SCREENING.  Up in a nearby tree,
	ROLAND and AJAY have spread some broken branches crosswise to
	form a high hide of their own about ten feet off the ground.

	They wait.

	Roland raises his binoculars.  The light of the camp spills
	all the way out here, illuminating some of the jungle.  He
	scans it, searching for any sign of movement.

	EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

	Back in the camp, Sarah, Malcolm, and Nick have finished with
	all of the vehicles except the badly battered one, which is
	parked some distance away, undergoing repairs.  The motor pool
	area is now a soggy lake of spilled gasoline.

	The saboteurs walk casually across the camp, unnoticed in the
	drunken revelry.  They pass several tents, the shadows of the
	partiers visible as they move inside.

	They continue across the camp and arrive at the other side --

	-- to face the caged animals.  The carinthosaur that was
	tranquilized earlier stands there dully, eyes heavy and
	glassy, still under the effects.  They pass a stegosaur, its
	row of fine bristling.

	And finally they reach the largest cage, which houses a
	triceratops the size of a pickup truck, Nick pulls out his
	trusty bolt cutters.  He looks at them, a glint in his eye.

				NICK
		Hang on.  We may encounter some
		turbulence.

	INT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

	In one of the hunter tents, PETER LUDLOW leans over the
	satellite recon pictures of the island, planning the next
	day's assault with DIETER and DR. BURKE, their paleontologist.
	There are small wooden dinosaur models scattered around the
	photos, indicating where certain species can be found.

				BURKE
		If you're really interested in
		infants, we'll have better luck at
		the seaside, because the sands offer
		a cushioning surface where the egg
		clutches can -- can --

	He trails off.  A low RUMBLING sound can be heard outside, and
	the little wooden dinosaurs start shaking on the board.

	They look at each other.  The RUMBLING gets louder.  Outside,
	someone SHOUTS; on the board, the little dinosaurs start
	hopping and bouncing from the vibrations, the SHOUTS outside
	turn to SCREAMS, they turn and look at the back of the tent --

	-- and the triceratops bursts right through the canvas!

	EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

	HUNTERS go flying as the tent-covered triceratops, its horns
	tearing through the canvas, RUMBLES across the camp.  Men
	SHOUT in alarm, the triceratops BELLOWS in anger and
	confusion, chaos reigns.

	In the crush of PEOPLE running every which way, MALCOLM and
	SARAH are swept off in one direction while NICK is buffeted
	in another.  They SHOUT, but cannot be heard over the frey.

	The triceratops, blinded by the canvas shroud, stomps right
	through the fire in the middle of the camp AND THE TENT BURSTS
	INTO FLAME.

	Now really upset, the animal panics and lashes out in all
	directions, blasting through tents, demolishing and/or setting
	ablaze anything that gets in its way.  Its considerable
	hindquarters SLAM into a parked jeep, sending it rolling
	across the camp.

	The jeep flattens the largest tent and SLAMS down on its side.
	Its broken gas line SPRAYS gas over the ground, the gas hits
	one of the dozens of small blazes the triceratops has left in
	its wake, and the flame shoots up the ribbon of gas.

	The jeep explodes.

	OUT IN THE JUNGLE CLEARING,

	Roland and Ajay, up in the tree, leap to their feet as a
	fireball rises up from the camp in the distance.

				ROLAND
		What in God's -- !

	BACK IN THE CAMP,

	the rest of the newly-freed animals now storm through the
	camp.  The blue laser barriers bounce crazily and go out as
	the sending units are trampled underfoot by the fleeing
	animals.

	AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP,

	Nick takes advantage of the downed lasers to slip part the
	bordere of the camp and disappear into the jungle in one
	direction, while Malcolm and Sarah vanish in the other.

	The burning tent, which was the equipment tent, now detonates
	in a series of smaller EXPLOSIONS.

	Dieter and several others are knocked to the ground by the
	series of concessive blasts.  He drags himself up onto all
	fours, charred and bruised.  A burning tire rolls slowly past
	him, spinning to a stop --

	-- at ROLAND's feet.  Dieter looks up at him.

				ROLAND
		Last time I leave you in charge.

	OUT IN THE JUNGLE,

	Nick breaks out into the jungle clearing, the same one where
	Ajay and Roland had their blind.  He sees the baby tyrannosaur
	chained to the stake.

				NICK
		Sick bastards.

	He goes to the animal, which now BLEATS in pain, its broken
	leg hanging at an odd angle.  With one strong tug, Nick pulls
	the stake out of the ground.

	BACK IN THE CAMP,

	Roland surveys the destruction.  The fire has spread and
	several tents are now tongues of flame flapping in the air,
	the animals are gone or going, and their personnel are
	scattered and terrified.  PETER LUDLOW, breathless, face
	smeared with dirt, and smoke, staggers up to Roland.

				LUDLOW
		What in Christ's name is going on?!

				ROLAND
		Isn't it obvious?

	He holds up the sniped padlock from one of the animal cages.

				NICK (cont'd)
		We're not alone on this island.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

	MALCOLM and SARAH race back up onto the ridge trail, where the
	green AAV is parked.  NICK bursts around from the other side
	of the car.

				SARAH
		Nick, thank God, we didn't know
		if --

	Malcolm opens the rear door.

				NICK
		Wait, don't ---

	With a piercing SHRIEK, the BABY TYRANNOSAUR, now in the back
	of the AAV, flings itself at the open doorway, jaws SNAPPING
	just short of Malcolm's nose.

				MALCOLM
		HOLY SHIT!!

	He SLAMS the door.

	DOWN IN THE HUNTERS' CAMP,

	Roland hears the commotion up on the ridge and looks up.

				ROLAND
		Do we have anyone up there?

	BACK UP ON THE RIDGE,

	Malcolm is confronting Nick.

				MALCOLM
		<U< your of out you>?!

				NICK
		It has a broken leg!

				MALCOLM
		So do it a favor and put it out of
		its misery!

				NICK
		No!  Get in the car before they hear 
		us!

	He runs around and leaps in the driver's seat.  Sarah slips
	into the passenger seat, quickly, leaving Malcolm no choice
	but the rear.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

	The AAV SLAPS through the jungle foliage.  From inside the
	car, we can hear the baby tyrannosaur SCREAMING in anger.

	INT. AAV - NIGHT

	The baby writhes on the base seat next to Malcolm, who has
	flattened himself against the door, as far away from the
	animal as possible.

				SARAH
		Ian, close the window, it's going to
		wake every predator in the jungle!

	Malcolm leans over the enraged animal and cranks up its
	window.  The tyrannosaur SLASHES with one of its powerful hind
	legs, ripping the flesh of his forearm.  He SHOUTS in pain.

	Outside, the listening jungle whizzes by.

	EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

	Up in the high hide, EDDIE, DR. JUTTSON, and KELLY are
	standing watch, scanning the jungle for any sign of their
	returning comrades.

	Juttson yanks the night-vision binoculars away from his face
	as he spots the AAV, pulling up to the base camp a couple
	hundred yards away.

				JUTTSON
		There they are!

	They all turn and look, but Eddie furrows his brow, watching
	them pull the wounded animal from the back seat.

				EDDIE
		What is that they have with them?

	EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

	SARAH and NICK carry the SCREECHING baby tyrannosaur in their
	arms, headed for the trailer.  MALCOLM, holding his bleeding
	arm, isn't far behind.

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	SARAH and NICK bring the SCREAMING infant to the metal dining
	table and hold it down.  MALCOLM is right behind them.

				MALCOLM
		This is exceedingly unwise.

	Sarah turns away from a drawer of medical supplies, holding a
	small syringe.  Her shirt is streaked with blood from the
	baby's injured leg.

				SARAH
		Too late to worry about that!  Hold
		him together, Nick!

	Nick tightens his grip on the animal and Sarah makes an
	injection into its thigh, over its loudly voiced objections.

				MALCOLM
		Just do whatever you have to do and
		get it out of here as quickly as
		possible.

	Sarah picks up a small ultrasound transducer and runs it over
	the animal's leg.  A green and white skeletal image appears on
	a monitor next to the table.

				SARAH
		Okay, there's the metatarsals --
		tibia, fibula -- there it is!  See
		it?  That's a fracture, just above
		the epiphysis.

	They peer closely at the monitor.

				NICK
		That little black line?

				SARAH
		That little black line means death
		for this infant.  The fibula won't
		heal straight, so the ankle joint
		can't pivot when he stands on his
		hind feet.  The baby won't be able to
		run, and probably can't even walk.
		It'll be crippled, and a predator
		will pick it off before it gets more
		than a few weeks old.

				MALCOLM
		Can you set up?

				SARAH
			(thinking)
		It has to be temporary, something
		that'll break apart and fall off as
		the animal grows...

				MALCOLM
		Think fast, Sarah.

	The tyrannosaur, still in pain, SHRIEKS again.

	EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

	Through their binoculars, the rest of the group watches the
	trailer carefully.  Even inside, the animal's SCREECHES are
	clearly audible.  Kelly is getting scared.

				KELLY
		What are they doing?  Why don't
		they hurry?!

				EDDIE
		Give me the radio.

	From the trailer, the baby lets out a long, plaintive
	SHRIEK --

	One by one, Eddie, Kelly, and Juttson turn around and stare
	into the night jungle.

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	NICK holds the animal while SARAH fits an aluminum foil cuff
	around its injured leg and paints it with a coating of resin.
	MALCOLM, at the window, stares out anxiously.  The animal
	thrashes again.

				NICK
		Give it more morphine!

				SARAH
		We'll kill it with too much, we'll
		put it into respiratory arrest!  I'm
		almost done.  Damn it, I need
		another adhesive, something pliable I
		can --

	Her eyes fall on Nick.  She holds out her hand, urgently.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		Spit!

	He spits his bubblegum into the palm of her hand.  The baby
	rex CRIES OUT again.

	EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

	From the swaying jungle, there is another answering ROAR.

	And this one's closer.

	In the high hide, the rest of the group stares, trembling.  In
	the distance, a flock of birds SHRIEKS and takes flight as the
	tops of some trees move, a whole section of forest suddenly
	coming alive, as if brushed by wind.

	But it's not the wind.

	They hear noises, THUDS in the jungle.  And then another
	section of forest trembles.  Closer.  Another flock of birds
	bursts out of the treetops and swarms past the high hide.

				KELLY
		What is it?

	Dr. Juttson puts an arm around Kelly, instinctively pulling
	her closer to him.  Eddie WHISPERS urgently into the
	walkie-talkie.

				EDDIE
		Sarah, come in!

				JUTTSON
		It's moving.  Fast.

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	There is a radio box mounted on the far wall of the trailer.
	The speaker BUZZES urgently with Eddie's VOICE.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
		Sarah, Malcolm, can you hear me?!

	On the table, Sarah is frantically molding Nick's bubblegum
	into place on the makeshift splint.  But the baby rex,
	regaining its strength, is thrashing again.

				SARAH
		Hold it down, Nick!

				NICK
		I'm trying!

				EDDIE (o.s.)
			(from the radio)
		Is anybody there?!

	Malcolm moves to answer the radio, but Sarah SHOUTS to him.

				SARAH
		Ian, get the bottle of amoxicillin
		and fill a syringe!  Quick injection
		of antibiotics and I can get it out
		of here!

	Forsaking the radio, Malcolm moves to the medicine drawer and
	comes up with what she wants.  Working fast, he draws twenty
	cc's of the pink liquid.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
			(still from the radio, now
			 desperate)
		SARAH OR IAN, ANSWER ME!

	They ignore him as Sarah grabs the syringe and makes the
	injection.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
		WHATEVER YOU BROUGHT INTO THE
		TRAILER, GET IT OUT NOW!

	EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

	Eddie has given up on whispering as he clutches the radio
	desperately.

				EDDIE
		WE ESTIMATE TWO LARGE ADULTS HEADED
		IN YOUR DIRECTION!  I REPEAT --

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	Nick, Sarah, and Malcolm spin around at hearing that terrible
	piece of information.

				MALCOLM
		Oh, Christ.

	He bolts over to the wall speaker and hits the button.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Let me talk to Kelly, is she--

	A deafening ROAR sound from just outside the trailer,
	followed immediately by a CRASHING sound.  They whirl and look
	to the window, just in time to see --

	--  the AAV tumbling by, rolling on its side!

	There is another ROAR, and the baby, on the table, ROARS in
	response.  Outside the window, the head of a full-grown
	TYRANNOSAURUS REX lowers and peers inside.

	Malcolm, Sarah, and Nick all freeze in absolute terror.

	The rex outside GURGLES, making material cooing noises.  The
	baby rex, calm for the first time, GURGLES back.

	But across the trailer, in the opposite window, ANOTHER T-REX
	HEAD SUDDENLY APPEARS.

	This one ROARS, deeply, a roar so low and loud it rattles
	anything in the trailer that isn't tied down.

				NICK
		What do they want?!

				MALCOLM
		What do you think they want?!

				SARAH
		That's impossible, they can't have
		the sensory equipment to track it all
		the way here!

				MALCOLM
		Current evidence seems to be to the
		contrary, wouldn't you say?!  GIVE IT
		TO THEM!

	Nick, hands shaking, grabs the shoulder video camera he used
	earlier.  He whips out the cassette that's in there, hurls it
	into an open duffel bag with half a dozen others, SLAMS a
	fresh cassette in, and flicks the "ON" switch.

	Sarah and Malcolm, meanwhile, hurry to the other end of the
	trailer, carrying the baby rex.  Outside, the two adult rexes
	stay with them, walking in the same direction, watching them
	through the window.

	EXT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	Seen from outside, the light inside the trailers clearly
	illuminates Sarah and Malcolm as they carry the bay rex.  The
	adult rexes tower over the trailer, twice as tall and nearly
	as long.  They walk slowly alongside it, hunched over,
	watching their infant.

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	At the door to the trailer, Sarah un-muzzles the frantic baby.

				SARAH
		Ready?

	Malcolm reaches for the door handle.

				NICK
		Wait!

	He dives down on the floor under them, pointing the video
	camera up at the door, getting the best shot.  Malcolm takes a
	breath, turns the knob, and throws open the door.

	Outside, the enormous rex heads pause for a moment, staring,
	surprised.

	Although terrified, Sarah actually starts to sing.

				SARAH
			(softly)
		Born free, as free as the wind blows.
		As free as the grass grows --

				MALCOLM
		Are you insane?!

				SARAH
		I swear to God, it works with lions
		sometimes!  There we are -- your baby
		is free --

	The baby, excited, wriggles free of them and lands on the
	ground outside.  Not wasting a second, Malcolm SLAMS the door
	shut.

	The three of them freeze, not daring to breath.  Outside, they
	can hear the SNUFFLING and COOING of the animals as they
	inspect their young --

	-- and then the soft THUD of their footsteps, growing fainter
	as they move away.

	From the wall, EDDIE'S VOICE comes over the radio, relieved.

				EDDIE
		They're going back into the jungle.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

	EDDIE, JUTTSON, and KELLY sag back against the railings of the
	high hide.

				EDDIE
		Thank God.  Thank God.

	MALCOLM'S VOICE comes over the radio.

				MALCOLM (o.s.)
		Kelly?  Are you all right?

	She takes the radio, her voice shaky.

				KELLY
		Uh huh.

							CUT TO:

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	MALCOLM is at the radio.

				MALCOLM
		Wait there.  I'll come up in a
		minute.  Don't move, understand?

				KELLY (o.s.)
		I understand.

	Malcolm slump against the wall of the trailer.  SARAH and
	NICK sit on the floor leaning against the opposite wall,
	completely drained.  Sarah pulls out her pocket recorder and
	speaks shakily into it.

				SARAH
		Note to Dr. Juttson -- Tyrannosaurus
		rex does nurture its young.

	They laugh weakly.

				NICK
		There's, uh -- there's an unwritten
		rule when a news crew is in a war
		zone.  You stop the van every two
		miles and decide whether or not to go
		on.  Whether or not you feel lucky.
		One "no" from anybody in the group
		and you turn around right there, no
		question asked, nobody embarrassed.
			(pause)
		Well?  Do we go on?
	Immediately:

				SARAH
		No.

				MALCOLM
		No.

				NICK
		No way.

	They all laugh.

				MALCOLM
		All right.  I'm satisfied with the
		evidence we have right now.
		I feel vindicated.  John Hammond will
		too.
			(to Sarah)
		Do you have enough to publish?

				SARAH
		They will come after me.  But I can
		collect some stool samples, for DNA
		with that, Nick's tapes, and the rest
		of you to back me up, it should stand
		when we get back.

				MALCOLM
			(getting up)
		Then the only thing left to do is
		make sure we do get back.  I'll
		call the mainland on the satellite
		phone and have them send the boat
		right now.  This expedition is over.

	He goes to the desk and picks up the heavy gray satellite
	phone that's resting in a battery pack.  The front panel
	lights up, a brilliant green.

	But from the wall speaker, the radio CRACKLES and EDDIE'S
	VOICE breaks through, soft and empty.

				EDDIE (o.s.)
		Oh, God.  I am so sorry.

	Malcolm and Sarah look at the speaker box.

				MALCOLM
		What the hell is he sorry f-

	A low RATTLE sneaks into the trailer.  Malcolm, Sarah, and
	Nick takes a step forward from the walls, looking around.  The
	RATTLE gets louder, the trailer shakes and vibrates,
	everything in it starts to BANG against the walls --

	-- and something huge SMASHES into the side of the trailer.

	They're all thrown against the far wall, there is an
	earsplitting CRACK of electricity, the entire trailer rocks
	and sparks a brilliant blue, and then everything goes black.

	The satellite phone flies out of Malcolm's hands and SMACKS
	against the wall.  It lands on the floor, its number pad still
	glowing green.

	Nick crawls over and looks out one of the windows.  Outside,
	the flank of one of the tyrannosaurs wipes past the window,
	revealing the second tyrannosaur, charging straight at the
	trailer!

				NICK
		HANG ON TO SOMETHING!

	They hurl themselves at the nearest solid object and hang on
	for dear life.  The charging rex SLAM into the side of the
	trailer, which rocks up on one side, BANGS back  down, and is
	quickly RAMMED again by the furious animal.  This time the
	entire trailer rolls over, completely upside down.

	Sarah, Nick, and Malcolm let go of their precarious handholds
	and drop onto the ceiling.  The tables, chairs, lab equipment,
	everything that's bolted down clings to the floor above them;
	everything that isn't RAINS DOWN ON THEM.

	But the rexes aren't done.  The trailer JOLTS INTO MOTION,
	sliding forwards.

	SEEN FROM OUTSIDE,

	the upside down trailer, which is the rear of the two
	trailers, slides along the muddy ground, pushing up earth in
	front of it.

	IN THE TRAILER,

				SARAH
		They're pushing us!

	Malcolm, frantic, crawls up to a window to get a look outside.
	He looks down and sees a T-rex footprint in the earth outside
	as they move past it.

	He cranks his head to get a look at the direction in which
	they are being pushed.  His eyes widen at something he sees
	outside the window.

				MALCOLM
		Oh, God.

				SARAH
		What?!

				MALCOLM
		They're pushing us over the cliff.

	Sure enough, out the back window, we see a few more feet of
	muddy earth, and then nothing but inky black.  The three of
	them look at each other for a moment --

	-- and then crawl like hell toward the other end of the
	trailer.  The opposite end reaches the edge of the cliff and
	starts up to tip ever-so-slightly downward.  They reach the
	accordion-like connector and Malcolm crawls into it.

	THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE FRONT TRAILER,

	which is right-side-up, Malcolm can see the two rexes hard at
	it, pushing the front end of the trailer.

	IN THE REAR TRAILER,

	Nick has a pretty good grip at the top of the trailer, but
	Sarah can only cling to an air vent in the ceiling as stuff
	starts to roll and tumble past her, headed downhill.

	The angle increases, the trailer dips, and now stuff starts to
	freefall, right past her, some SMASHING her in the head.

	Malcolm, still in the connecting tube, grabs hold.  Sarah,
	starting to be pulled downward, paws at the refrigerator,
	getting a g rip on the handle.  The door, held by a safety
	latch, doesn't open.

	Below Sarah, debris falls to the rear window of the trailer.
	Through the CRACKING glass, we can see the surf, CRASHING five
	hundred feet below.

	The refrigerator bolts suddenly CRUNCH free of the wall.  The
	box strains on its power cord.

	Still clinging to the handle, Sarah swings wildly as it starts
	to come loose, swaying above her.

	The safety latch on the door gives, it swings open, and a
	shower of food BANGS off of her as gravity empties the
	contents.

	Sarah loses her grip and plummets through the now-vertical
	trailer.  She SCREAMS, covers her head, and SMASHES into the
	rear window.  The glass spiderwebs, but does not break.

	FIVE HUNDRED FEET BELOW,

	an enormous wave POUNDS the rocky shore.  Above, Sarah is a
	tiny figure, sprawled out on the glass, held invisibly by the
	breaking window.

	IN THE TRAILER,

	Nick SHOUTS to her.

				NICK
		SARAH!  DON'T MOVE!

	Sarah, stunned by the fall, blinks a few times, regaining her
	senses.  She looks down, at the crashing surf so far below.
	For a person with a fear of heights, this is a real drag.  As
	she stares, the rocks seem to move even farther away from her.
	She blanches; the world spins around her.

				SARAH
		OH... GOD ... please...

	Her breath fogs the cracked glass.  Slowly, she tries to get
	up, caaaaaarefully pulling herself up to her hands and knees.

	But as she puts pressures on her hands, the glass CRACKS even
	more, tiny spiderwebs shooting out around her fingers.  The
	whole glass panel sags, bowing out around the bottom of the
	trailer.

	UP ABOVE HER,

	Malcolm looks down and sees the satellite phone precariously
	balanced on one leg of the kitchen table, its number pad still
	glowing green.  Nick is closest to it.

				MALCOLM
		Nick!  Grab the phone!

	SARAH

	looks to her right, at a metal grating that runs along the
	wall of the trailer.  She shifts her weight, leaning on one
	hand to reach for the grating with the other.

	NICK

	reaches for the satellite phone, its antenna just six inches
	from his outstretched fingers.

	SARAH

	leans toward the metal grating, all hairline cracks shoot out
	around her pivot hand, shaking through the glass.  The
	splintered glass spread like a disease, it reaches the edge
	of the frame --

	-- and her hand CRACKS right through the glass.  She GASPS and
	pulls her hand out, but now she knees SMASH through the
	glass.

	NICK

	has two fingers on the phone, but suddenly the whole trailer
	shudders and the heavy phone tips off the table leg and falls.

				NICK
		SARAH LOOK OUT!

	SARAH

	lunges for the metal grating and clings to it just as the
	heavy phone whizzes past her head and SMASHES into the glass,
	opening up a huge hole in the center of the back window.

	UNDERNEATH THE TRAILER,

	glass, food, lab equipment, and the precious satellite phone
	fall out the broken window and SMASH on the rocks far below.

	IN THE CLEANING,

	the trailers are split, like an L, the rear trailer hanging
	straight down, the forward one resting on the edge of the
	cliff.  Satisfied with their work, the T-rexes turn and lumber
	back into the jungle.

	IN THE TRAILER,

	Sarah climbs carefully up the metal grating.  Above her, Nick
	lowers himself as far as he can, reaching for her.

	ON THE CLIFFSIDE,

	we realize the hanging trailer halted its descent because one
	corner of it is wedged in the branches of a tree that grows
	out from the muddy cliff.

	But now those branches SPLINTER.

	IN THE TRAILER,

	Malcolm sees the bellows, the connector between the trailers,
	stretch as the lower trailer JERKS and dips lower.

	BELOW HIM,

	Sarah mountain-climbs through the trailer's kitchen,
	inadvertently kicking the faucet on as she struggles for
	purchase.

	OUTSIDE,

	the tree branch SNAPS and the trailer jerks, stretching down
	again.  The bellows expands to its full length, stretching
	like a Slinky.

	INSIDE,

	Nick knows he has to hurry.  He climbs down, bouncing off the
	built-in furniture, moving ever closer to Sarah.

	But Sarah slips and loses her grip, dropping a few feet.  She
	gabs hold of the sink, the flowing water spraying her face.

	EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

	EDDIE CARR is in the driver's seat of the jeep, racing through
	the jungle as fast as he can.

				EDDIE
		Hang on -- hang on --

	The foliage SMACKS the windshield, then clears suddenly,
	revealing the endangered trailers on the cliffside ahead of
	him.  The jeep bounces through the deep footprints left by the
	rex and SKIDS to a halt.

	INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

	Sarah loses her grip on the sink and falls, SMASHING into the
	frame of the half-broken rear window again.

	OUTSIDE,

	Eddie bolts out of the car and runs to the front trailer.  He
	SHOUTS in through the broken front window.

				EDDIE
		HEY!  HELLO?!

	IN THE REAR TRAILER,

	The three look up from their precarious positions.

				MALCOLM
		WE'RE IN HERE!  GET SOME ROPE!

	OUTSIDE,

	Eddie turns and run back to the jeep.  He grabs a coil of
	rope, secures one end around a tree, and hurries back to the
	trailer.

	IN THE REAR TRAILER,

	Eddie dashes over the mess in the front trailer and crawls out
	into the extended connector.  He peers over the edge, down
	into the second trailer, and tosses the rope.

				EDDIE
		Catch!

	The rope falls through the center of the trailer, its end
	dangling all the way out the smashed rear window.  But the
	trailer SHUDDERS, starting to move again.

				SARAH
		We're sliding!

				EDDIE
		Climbs up if you can!

	OUTSIDE,

	Eddie runs out of the trailer in time to see the wheels
	dragging forward through the mud as the weight of the dangling
	trailer pulls the whole thing toward the edge of the cliff.

	He runs for the jeep and grabs hold of the power winch on the
	front grill.

	Behind him, the trailer rolls closer to the edge of the cliff.

	Eddie races back to the trailer, pulling out a length of cable
	behind him.  He runs up to the still-moving trailer, dives for
	its towing hook, the cable goes taut --

	-- and he falls short.  Just by six inches, but he's out of
	cable.

				EDDIE
		Damn it!

	INSIDE THE TRAILER,

	Nick and Sarah are now together, clinging to the rope near the
	bottom of the trailer as it shifts around them.  Malcolm is
	further up, also clinging to the rope.

	OUTSIDE,

	dirt and rocks pile up around the wheels and spill over the
	edge of the cliff.

	Eddie, back at the jeep, reels out more winch cable.  He turns
	and races back to the trailer just as gravity starts to LIFT
	THE FRONT END OFF THE GROUND!

	Eddie dives again, and this time the cable hook CLICKS
	securely into the trailer's towing hook.  The trailer lurches
	toward the edge of the cliff and stops.

	But the jeep is jerked forward by the sudden pressure.

	IN THE TRAILER,

	Malcolm clings to the rope in the middle of the trailer while
	Nick and Sarah try to struggle up it, but a sudden dig knocks
	them back, and their hands slide down the line.  SCREAMING,
	they slide through the trailer and their feet SMASH through
	the remains of the rear window.

	Regaining hold of the rope at the very end, the two of them
	now find themselves hanging out of the rear end of the trailer,
	dangling over the rocky shore below.

	IN THE JEEP,

	Eddie hits the gas and the tires slosh in the mud, trying to
	get a grip.  The jeep pulls just enough to lower the front
	trailer back to earth.  But the tires spin, fighting to hold
	it there.

	ON THE CLIFFSIDE

	Sarah and Nick dangle, desperate.

	IN THE JEEP

	Eddie CHUNKS the shifter into four wheel drive and GUNS the
	engine.  As the motor ROARS, the sound is topped by another
	ROAR, in the distance.

	And this one's not a machine.  But Eddie doesn't hear it.  He
	GUNS the engine again.  There is another ROAR from the jungle.

	Eddie hears this one.  He darts a look at the side view
	mirror.  In it, he sees one of the TYRANNOSAURS bolt out of
	the jungle behind him.

	He GASPS and looks at the other side view.  In it, he sees the
	OTHER REX racing toward him.

	The tyrannosaurs STOMP forward to confront the ROARING jeep.
	The first rex bends over, CHOMPS down on the rear tire, and
	lifts the car to its teeth.

	But the spinning tire LINGS in the rex's mouth, burning it.
	Surprised by the fight in this foe, the rex loses its grip and
	the jeep BANGS back down onto the ground.

	Eddie, horrified, dives down under the steering wheel, to get
	away.  The gas pedal pops up --

	-- which makes the trailer pitch over the side of the cliff.

	But the rex STOMPS down on the jeep to prevent its escape.
	The trailers stop.

	Now the rexes lean down, over the jeep, and focus on Eddie,
	who still covers under the steering wheel.  The first rex
	SNAPS at him, hitting the steering column with it, leaving Eddie fully
	exposed.

	He SCREAMS and the second rex lashes in, seizing him in its
	teeth and tossing him out of the car.

	Eddie pops up into the air between the two rexes, both their
	heads flash at him at the same time, and in a split-second, he
	disappears between their teeth.

	Now completely ignored, the jeep rolls freely forward and the
	trailers drop over the edge of the cliff.

	INSIDE THE TRAILER,

	Nick, Sarah and Malcolm cling to each other and the rope as
	the trailers fall around them.  The windows flash by as the
	trailers plummet, equipment BANGS and SCRAPES them, but they
	hold on to the rope, still tied to the tree, for dear life.

	ON THE CLIFFSIDE,

	the trailers slide the rest of the way, exposing the three,
	who pop out the space where the front windshield was.
	Dangling from the rope, they look up and see the jeep, which
	is now rolling to the edge of the cliff.

	It falls, past them, and the whole mess EXPLODES on the rocks
	below.  Finally, it is silent, except for the sound of the
	surf.

	EXT. CLEARING - NIGHT

	It's quiet up here too, the rexes nowhere to be seen.  At the
	cliff, a hand appears from over the edge.  Then another.
	SARAH pulls herself up, back onto solid ground, then comes
	NICK, then both of them reach over and help MALCOLM up over
	the edge.

	They collapse there, in the mud, completely exhausted.

				MALCOLM
			(softly)
		Eddie?

	He looks at the other two.  They glance around, then drop
	their heads.  Sarah hears a SOUND in the distance.

				SARAH
		Oh, God.  Now what?

	From the edge of the jungle, a cris-cross of flashlight beams
	moves toward them.  But rather than the three or four that
	would signify their own group, there are nearly twenty of
	them.

	The HUNTERS, PETER LUDLOW is in the lead, ROLAND and AJAY
	with him.  DIETER is there too, shepherding KELLY and DR.
	JUTTSON along in front of him.

	Malcolm sees Kelly, they call out to each other, and race
	together.  Malcolm falls to his knees and hugs her as tightly
	as he possibly can.

				MALCOLM
		Are you all right?!  Anything broken?

				KELLY
		I'm fine, I'm fine, I was scared, I
		thought you, are you okay?!

				MALCOLM
		I'm fine... I'm fine...

	Roland looks around, at the mess that was their base camp.

				ROLAND
			(mostly to himself)
		That's what you think.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. RUINED BASE CAMP - NIGHT

	In the ruins of the first team's base camp, the survivors of
	the night's two separate catastrophes stand face to face, in a
	heated argument.

	MALCOLM sits off to the side, still holding Kelly in his arms,
	just looking down at the ground and shaking his head.  There's
	something about his posture of defeat that is far more ominous
	than any of the hot tempers that are flaring.  LUDLOW rants to
	SARAH while DIETER looms menacingly over NICK.

				LUDLOW
		Trespassing, sabotage -- you could go
		to jail just for being here, did
		you know that?

				SARAH
		Don't start a legal argument with me,
		this island isn't your property, and
		neither are these animals!

	DR. JUTTSON has encountered DR. BURKE.

				JUTTSON
		What are you doing here, Burke?
		There's no TV cameras, what's the
		point?

				BURKE
		Dr. Juttson, you exist outside the
		classroom.  I am amazed.

	Dieter continues to get in Nick's face.

				NICK
		Are you looking for a problem?

				JUTTSON
			(an urgent whisper)
		Everyone, keep your voices down!

				ROLAND
		Back off, Dieter.

				JUTTSON
		Listen to me, by moving the baby
		rex into our camp, we changed the
		adults' perceived territory!

				LUDLOW
		Their what?

				SARAH
			(she understands)
		Oh, God.

				JUTTSON
		That's why they persisted in
		destroying the trailers, they now
		feel they have to defend this entire
		area!  We're not safe here.

				LUDLOW
			(of Sarah and Nick)
		Thanks to you people.

				SARAH
		Hey, we came here to observe, you
		came here to strip-mine the place!
		It's a looter mentality, all you care
		about is what you can take.

				ROLAND
		None of that matters.  Our
		communications equipment's been
		destroyed.  If your radio and
		satellite phone were in those
		trailers that went off the cliff, and
		I'm guessing by the look on his
		face --

	He points at Malcolm, who is still off to the side, sitting in
	stunned silence.  Malcolm looks up and nods, slowly.  The
	grimness of their situation sinks in.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		We are stuck here, ladies and
		gentlemen.  And we're stuck together.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

	Back in the hunters' now-demolished camp, members of the two
	groups combine their diminished supplies.  They have half a
	dozen large plastic containers of water, thirty-seven
	containers of food, ranging from Ziploc bags to aluminum tins,
	a variety of weapons, mot of them borne on the hips or
	shoulders of the HUNTER team, the charred and scraggly
	remnants of several pieces of now-useless electrical
	equipment, a flare gun and several flares, somebody's tattered
	paperback ("Crime and Punishment"), a box of Hershey bars, and
	a cartoon of Marlboros.

	ROLAND supervises the assembling of the resources, which are
	displayed in front of him.  LUDLOW, NICK, SARAH, JUTTSON, and
	MALCOLM, who is still holding KELLY close to him, are with
	him.  They hold their discussion in quiet tones.

				ROLAND
		If we can't stay in the rex's
		territory, we have to move tonight.

				SARAH
		Move where?  Our boat's not coming
		for two days, your airlift is waiting
		for an order you have no way to
		send --

	Ludlow refers to the charred and trampled satellite
	photographs of the island, which are still mostly legible.

				LUDLOW
		There's a communication center, here,
		in the old worker village.  Hammond
		put in some kind of renewable power
		source replenishing.  It may still
		work.  If we could get there, we
		could send a radio call for the
		airlift.

				NICK
		How far is the village?

				LUDLOW
		I said if we could get there.

				NICK
		Well, how far is it?

				LUDLOW
		A day's walk, maybe more.  That's not
		the problem.

				ROLAND
		What is?

				LUDLOW
		The velociraptors.

	Malcolm looks up sharply.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		Our infrareds show their nesting
		sites are concentrated in the island
		interior.  That's why we planned on
		keeping to the outer rim.

	Malcolm shepherds Kelly away from the conversation and mutters
	something to her quietly in the background.

				DIETER
		What are velociraptors?

				JUTTSON
		Carnivores.  Pack hunters.  About six
		feet long, three or four hundred
		pounds, and very, very fast.

	Dieter brandishes his weapon.

				DIETER
		I think we can handle ourselves
		against them.

	Malcolm rejoins the conversation, alone.  He keeps his voice
	low.

				MALCOLM
		No.  I'm quite certain you can't.

				ROLAND
		Look, we have two choices.  We can
		hike back down to the lagoon, where
		we can sit for two days, in the open,
		next to a heavily used water source
		while we're waiting for your boat to
		arrive, or we can head for the
		village, where we might find some
		shelter and we can call for help.

				MALCOLM
		We'd never make it past the raptors.
		Trust me, I have some experience in
		this matter.

	Roland looks at him.

				ROLAND
		That may be.  But you weren't with
		me at the time.

	Malcolm just shakes his head, then turns and walks back to
	Kelly.  Roland turns to the others.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		Load up.  Let's get this moveable
		feast underway.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. ISLAND - NIGHT

	The SURVIVORS set forth, marching through the jungle in a
	column.  Two HUNTERS strap on small shoulder-mounted
	servo-flashlights.  Wires run from the lights end in
	sensor pads which they stick to the skin of their necks.  Thus
	attached, when the hunters turn their heads, the servo-lights
	turn with them, illuminating whatever direction they look in.

	MALCOLM screws the barrel into the Lindstradt rifle and slings
	it over his shoulder as he marches, limping heavily.  He looks
	down at KELLY, who is marching alongside him.  His face shows
	the deepest of regret.  He shakes his head, cursing himself.

				MALCOLM
		Damn it.

	He looks away as Kelly looks up at him, questioning.  ROLAND
	falls into step with Malcolm and notices his limp.

				ROLAND
		You all right?

	Malcolm looks at him, then looks away without answering.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		Wrong question?

				MALCOLM
		You ever heard of Gambler's Ruin?

				ROLAND
		What's that?

				MALCOLM
		A statistical phenomenon.  Says
		everything in the world goes in
		streaks.  It's real, you see it
		everywhere -- in weather, in river
		flooding, in baseball, in blackjack,
		in stock markets.  Once things go
		bad, they tend to stay bad.  Bad
		things cluster.  They go to hell
		together.

				ROLAND
		Feeling a bit blue, are we?

	Malcolm glances at Kelly, who has taken a slightly faster pace
	and is a few steps ahead of them now.

				MALCOLM
		Just -- flawed.  Very deeply flawed.

				ROLAND
		Why did you come here?

				MALCOLM
		So that others would know about this
		place?

				ROLAND
		Why should they?

				MALCOLM
		Because it exists.

				ROLAND
		It'll still exit if they go on not
		knowing, won't it?

				MALCOLM
		Yes.  And people will live in the
		absence of truth.

				ROLAND
		So the truth is more important to you
		than your life?

				MALCOLM
			(lowers is voice)
		I don't care about my life.  But if
		I'd ever thought for a second that
		she would be in danger --

	Roland follows his gaze forward, to Kelly, who's about ten
	yards ahead now.

				ROLAND
		She yours?

	AHEAD OF THEM,

	Kelly can hear their voices, faint, but clear.  They are not
	as far away as they think they are.

				MALCOLM (o.s.)
		I'm afraid so.  I don't know what the
		hell I'm doing with kids.  I never
		should have had her.

	Kelly's face shows she heard that part.

	BEHIND HER,

	Malcolm, unaware, continues with Roland.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Why are you here?

				ROLAND
		Somewhere on this island, there
		exits the greatest predator that
		ever lived.  And the second greatest
		predator must take him down.

				MALCOLM
		But why?

				ROLAND
		You remember that guy, about twenty
		years ago, I forget his name, but he
		climbed Everest without any oxygen,
		came down almost dead.  And they
		asked him, "why did you go up there
		to die?"  And he said "I didn't.  I
		went up there to live."

				MALCOLM
			(nods)
		It's called self-testing.  But in
		your case, it sounds more like
		self-destruction.  A uniquely human
		characteristic.  In fact, human
		beings destroy things so well that I
		sometimes think that's our function.
		Maybe every few sons, some animal
		comes along that kills off the rest
		of the world, clears the decks, and
		lets evolution proceed to his next
		phase.  Maybe death and destruction
		are our job, maybe we're supposed
		to destroy ourselves and every other
		living thing that-

	Every person on the trail within earshot has stopped and is
	staring at Malcolm, shaken by his words.  Roland grabs Malcolm
	by the shirt collar and pulls him close, GROWLING in his ear.

				ROLAND
		Tell you what.  You can see whatever
		you want to, to me, but you will not
		spew any more nihilist rants at
		anyone else in the group.  I'm
		fighting panic, and you push the
		wrong buttons.  Understand?

	Malcolm just blinks.  This guy's in charge.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE - DAWN

	As a purple dawn dissolves the night sky, the SURVIVORS
	stagger on, exhausted.  Some are starting to tire, and there
	are spaces in the column.  MALCOLM's limp seems to be getting
	worse.  NICK reaches out, to take Malcolm's pack, but Malcolm
	swats his hand away.

	KELLY, still ahead of him, falls into step with SARAH.

				KELLY
		I don't think -- my dad doesn't
		think we're going to make it.

	Sarah looks at her.

				SARAH
		Your dad is wrong.  About a lot more
		than he knows.

	She puts an arm around her.  Kelly looks up at her, grateful.
	The long march continues.

	UP AT THE FRONT,

	NICK catches up to ROLAND.

				NICK
		I think you should call a break.

				ROLAND
		Another half hour.

				NICK
		Some of them won't make another half
		hour.  We didn't come this far to
		start dropping in the middle of the
		jungle.  If you don't call it, I
		will.

	Roland looks at him, steely, then SHOUTS to the group.

				ROLAND
		FIVE MINUTES BREAK!

	Immediately, the marchers drop where they stood, absolutely
	drained.

	AT THE REAR OF THE GROUP,

	DRS. BURKE and JUTTSON are bickering.

				JUTTSON
		I can't believe you're still angry
		about that.

				BURKE
		You know, it's very easy to criticize
		the first person who studies
		something.

				JUTTSON
		No, it's easy to criticize sloppy
		research and hasty conclusions.

	NEARBY,

	MALCOLM checks Nick's bag of videotapes, making sure they're
	still dry and undamaged.  Sarah comes up, watching him.

				SARAH
		You know, even if we do get those
		tapes back, people are going to say
		it's just another hoax.  Ian
		Malcolm's alien autopsy.

				MALCOLM
		Maybe.  Maybe not.

				SARAH
		Ian, they will misplace our evidence,
		shoot holes in our testimony, and say
		some special effects genius created
		the animals.  The only way people
		will ever believe that dinosaurs
		exist is if you dump a T-rex in the
		middle of times Square.

	He doesn't look at her.  She sits down beside her.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		There's something more important that
		you should be thinking about instead.

	BEHIND THEM,

	Dr. Burke, furious, has stalked away from Juttson and sits
	down on a rock.  H does a double take, noticing something
	behind the rock.  He leans over and picks it up.

	It's an oval shape about eight inches long, with a pebbled
	exterior.  A dinosaur egg.

	Burke's face lights up, fascinated, and he carefully pieces
	the egg in a satchel he wears over one shoulder.

	AT THE REAR OF THE GROUP,

	DIETER STARK pulls a wad of toilet paper from his pack, drops
	the pack on the ground, and turns to the Hunter nearest him --
	CARTER, his driver, who has his back turned.

				DIETER
		Wait here for me, would ya Carter?

	He steps off the path, into the jungle.  But as we come around
	the front of Carter, we see he's wearing a Walkman, the
	headphone BLARING tinnily in his ears.

	And he didn't hear a word.

	EXT. THICK OF THE JUNGLE - DAY

	Only a few feet off the path, it's primary forest, the growth
	so thick that almost all sunlight is obscured.  DIETER claws
	forward until he finds a suitable spot to relieve himself.

	He clears away a bunch of leaves and debris and raises his
	hand to his belt buckle.  He freezes, hearing something we
	didn't.  He glances around, head darting, alert to any danger.

	Nothing there.  Just a few distant ANIMAL CALLS--

	-- and s SCURRYING around to his left.

	Dieter snaps his head in that direction.  At first, he sees
	nothing, but as he moves closer, gun extended in front of him,
	he sees a small dinosaur, a COMPSOGRATHUS, the same
	chicken-sized animal Cathy saw on the beach so long ago.

				DIETER
		It's not polite to --

	He pulls the steel rod out of a loop in his belt and touches
	it to the compy's back.  The blue bolt of electricity CRACKS
	and dances over the compy's body and it convulses in pain.

				DIETER (cont'd)
		-- sneak up on people.

	The wounded compsognathus scurries back into the jungle,
	whimpering.  Dieter clambers through the foliage ten or twelve
	paces, pushes aside two large palm fronds, and steps out
	into --

	-- more jungle.  He stops, puzzled, not sure if he went back
	or forward.

	He looks behind him.  He pauses, recalculating the path he
	took coming into the jungle, MUTTERING to himself, gesturing
	with his hands, retracing his steps.

	He adjusts his angle slightly to the right and heads off in
	that direction.  But after five or six hard-fought steps, he
	stops again.  Still nothing but jungle.

				DIETER
		HEY!  CARTER!  YELL OR SOMETHING, I
		GOT TURNED AROUND IN HERE!

	ON THE TRAIL,

	Dieter's cries are faint, but audible.  The only Marchers hear
	enough to hear him is CARTER, but the Walkman is blaring in
	his ears.

				DIETER (o.s.)
		...Carter... me?...

	IN THE JUNGLE,

	Dieter hears that SCURRYING sound again, this time from his
	right.  He adjusts his angle again and SCRAPES through the
	foliage, moving faster and faster.

	Panicking, he ties to run, but the roots rise high out of the
	ground in the jungle, and he trips on one and falls flat on
	his face.

	He looks up.  The SCURRYING sound comes again, this time ten
	times louder than before, like a hundred feet coming at him.

	Dieter GASPS as something rushes in at him.

	He whirls to his right.  Whatever it is rushes in from that
	side as well.  And the left.  And behind him.  Dieter
	scrambles up into a sitting position --

	-- and laughs.  He is surrounded by at least forty compys now,
	the same as the one he wounded.

	For a long moment, they just stare at him.  Slowly, he brings
	his gun around, to point it at them.

				DIETER
		Easy -- wait -- one more sec-

	As one, the compys SHRIEK and hurl themselves forward,
	covering Dieter's body.  Their teeth and claws FLASH as they
	each try to grab a scrap of his flesh, tearing savagely.

	Dieter SCREAMS and flails, waving his arms and legs wildly.
	Some of the tiny animals lose their grip and sail off,
	SMASHING into trees or the ground.  But dozens of others hang
	on, and Dieter falls over backwards, now lying on his back on
	the ground.

	Hysterical, he fights like hell to get to his feet, SCREAMING,
	shaking, swatting the compys loose.  He spins, and that tactic
	seems to work, as the compys themselves begin to panic and
	drop off of him.  But he also loses his grip on his weapon,
	which goes flying, landing in the thick foliage five or six
	feet from him.

	Losing the attack, the compys turn and dart away en masse,
	stopping ten yards away from him.

	But they turn and regroup, facing him in a line, hopping up
	and down, CHIRPING and SHRIEKING.

	Dieter bounds into the foliage, looking for his gun.  But the
	compys follow him in and he's forced to flee, abandoning his
	lost weapon.

	Ten feet on, he stops, knowing he's screwed without the gun.
	He turns to face the pursuing compys.

	They stop.

	Dieter charges them, SHOUTING, waving his arms.

	The compys turn and run.  Dieter stops.

	The compys stop.  They stare back at him.  There is a moment
	of quiet, then they start to hop again, CHIRPING and
	SQUEALING.

	Dieter, tired of this game, turns and runs away.

	The compys follow.

	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

	From the front of the convoy, ROLAND SHOUTS out.

				ROLAND
		Break's over, move on!

	The exhausted marchers drag themselves back to their feet and
	start to march again.  At the rear of the group, someone taps
	Carter, who is still listening to his music.  Carter gets up,
	hoists his backpack, and marches away.

	Behind him, Dieter's pack is left, forgotten, on the jungle
	trail.

	EXT. DEEP IN THE JUNGLE - DAY

	DIETER stumbles along, exhausted.  He reaches the edge of a
	stream that runs under the foliage, and his feet slip on the
	stones.  He falls, into the rocky stream.

	Behind him, the army of compys pours over the little hill he
	just crested.  They disappear for a moment, down an incline --

	-- And then swarm over his body.  In a frenzy of splashing,
	Dieter shrugs them off and crawls away, through the stream.
	He gets to his feet but falls again, this time over a log.  A
	geyser of water splashes up in the air behind the log as
	Dieter drops out of sight.

	The compys leap over the log and disappear from view too,
	throwing up their own splashes of water.  SCREECHING,
	CHIRPING, and the sound of TEARING flesh mixes with Dieter's
	SCREAMS.

	Now, as more compys leap over the log and splash into the
	water below, the geysers that shoot up into our field of view
	are pink.

	And then they're a deep, deep red.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

	The group has stopped again.  Near the rear, SARAH, NICK,
	MALCOLM, LUDLOW, and ROLAND are in a tense conversation with
	CARTER.

				ROLAND
		How long ago was this?

				CARTER
		Seven, eight minutes.

	Roland looks at them, thinking.  Finally:

				ROLAND
		Then he's dead.  Nobody tells the
		little girl.  Last thing we need is
		screaming hysterics.

	He turns and heads back to the front of the column.

				SARAH
		We have to send someone to look for
		him!

				ROLAND
		You go if you like, but we're not
		waiting for you.  MOVE IT OUT!!

	They look at each other, appalled, but the column starts to
	move.  Numbed, shocked, but left with no choice, they move on,
	one by one.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. ISLAND RIDGE - DUSK

	The column of MARCHERS has finally reached the island ridge,
	where they are silhouetted against the setting sun.  They're
	taking a break, sprawled out on rocks or over the ground.

	MALCOLM sits next to KELLY, who's sitting on a log.

				MALCOLM
		You okay?

	She doesn't look at him, just gets up and walks away, going to
	sit over next to SARAH.

	Malcolm watches, pained, but Sarah puts an arm around her and
	makes a "she's okay" gesture to Malcolm.

	AT THE RIDGE,

	ROLAND steps up to the very edge and peers into the island
	interior.  From his vantage point, he's able to see all the
	way to the far side of the island, a rim of herd black cliff,
	miles away.  Between here and the cliffs there is nothing but
	gently undulating jungle.

	He refers to one of the satellite recon photos.

				ROLAND
		Looks like the worker village is down
		in there, about a mile and a half
		northeast from the base of these
		cliffs.

	MALCOLM is next to him.

				MALCOLM
		There must be a game trail, some kind
		of path that goes down there.

	Roland looks around at the exhausted MARCHERS.

				ROLAND
		They'll have to rest before we look
		for it.  Eat.  Sleep.  Two hours.
		Then we hit it.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. CAMPSITE - NIGHT

	The group has made camp in the jungle.  The mood is somber,
	most of the MARCHERS asleep already.  Three or four tents have
	been put up.

	IN ONE TENT,

	KELLY sits quietly in a corner, her eyes wide, knees hugged up
	to his chest.  SARAH comes in.

				SARAH
		There you are.  Your dad's looking
		for you.

				KELLY
		I doubt that.

	Sarah takes off her outer shirt and hangs it over a bar to dry
	the broad red smear across its front.

				SARAH
		Oh, come on.  Go talk to him.

				KELLY
		Why?  He likes to be alone.  I can
		stay with you.

	IN THE CAMPSITE,

	all is still.  The nocturnal jungle HOOTS and BUZZES around
	the sleeping marchers.

	In his tent, ROLAND abruptly sits up.  As if he heard
	something.  He looks out the open flap.  In the middle of the
	campsite, he sees AJAY stop in his tracks, head cocked.

	Roland gets up and goes outside, joining Ajay in the middle of
	the camp.

				ROLAND
		You hear something?

				AJAY
		No.  I feel something.

	Roland looks at him.  This isn't so good.  He looks out at the
	shifting jungle.  He notices a thin plume of smoke rising up
	over the trees just barely outside the edge of camp.

				ROLAND
		Oh, no.

	IN SARAH'S TENT,

	Kelly and Sarah have laid down on top of sleeping bags, trying
	to get a few minutes' rest.  Sarah's shirt hangs over them,
	swaying in the gentle breeze coming through the open flap.

	As the shirt dangles there, swinging softly from side to side,
	we notice the broad red smear across the front.  Oh, that's
	right -- it's blood.

	The baby T-rex's blood.

	AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP,

	the thin plume of smoke leads down to a tiny cooking fire
	that's been lit by DR. BURKE.

	He's set a small frying pan on top of it, and now he CRACKS
	the dinosaur egg he picked up earlier into the pan.

	Roland and Ajay run up behind him.

				ROLAND
			(hisses)
		ARE YOU OUT OF YOUR MIND?!

	Burke leaps out of the way as Roland kicks dirt on the fire.

	BMBB!

	Roland, Ajay, and Burke all freeze.  What was that?

	IN SARAH'S TENT,

	Sarah and Kelly sit up.  They felt it too.

	BMBB!

	AT THE COCKING FIRE,

				ROLAND
		Get my weapon.

	Ajay turns and trots away a few steps, then stops cold,
	staring down at the ground.

	BMBB!

	A recent rain has all left puddles scattered around the camp, and
	impact tremors now create ripples in the puddles -- concentric
	circles spreading to the outer edges.

	BMBB!

	IN SARAH'S TENT,

	Sarah and Kelly are frantically sealing up any opened food
	into Ziploc bags.

	BMBB!

	Now they leap into Sarah's sleeping bag, to seal themselves,
	and draw the zipper up, all the way around.

	Outside, the silhouette of the rex's head passes by the tent.
	Sarah works faster, her fingers struggling to close the last
	few inches, but --

	-- the rex head pokes through the flap of the tent.  It
	sniffs, SNORTING the air in and out.  It looks around the
	tent.

	It sniffs Sarah's hanging shirt, the one that is stained with
	the blood of the baby tyrannosaur.  The adult tyrannosaur
	GURGLES again, COOING and cocking its head curiously.

	In the sleeping bag, Sarah and Kelly's eyes are barely
	visible, wide in panic.  The rex sniffs and nudges the bag,
	trying to figure out what this thing is.

	It rolls the bag over once, decides it's uninteresting, and
	then rises, straights up --

	-- taking the whole tent with it!  The stakes pop out of the
	ground as the tent rises high up into the air and flutters
	away, leaving the sleeping bag fully exposed on the ground
	beneath it.

	IN THE CAMPSITE,

	the SECOND TYRANNOSAUR now steps out of the jungle, joining
	the first.  Panic hits the camp as the sleeping HUNTERS wake
	up.  Many of them start to run.

	Roland scrambles toward his tent, where he can see his weapon
	lying near the open flap.  As he draws close, an enormous
	T-rex foot stomps down on the tent, driving the rifle deep
	into the mud.

	Roland, weaponless, stands frozen, watching as the panicked
	Hunters flee in all directions.

				ROLAND
		FOR CHRIST'S SAKE, DON'T RUN!

	But they ignore him, sweeping him up in the wave of flushed
	prey that pours across the campsite.  Some toss random and
	ill-aimed GUNSHOTS back at the rexes.

	ACROSS THE CAMPSITE,

	NICK bursts out of the crowd, sees Kelly and Sarah struggling
	to get out of the sleeping bag, and grabs each by an arm.  He
	rips them to their feet and sweeps them off ahead of him, into
	the jungle.

	IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CROWD,

	MALCOLM, blinking back sleep, stands a good head above the
	rest of the panicking crowd.  Frantically, he scans the group.

				MALCOLM
		KELLY?  KEEEEELLLY?!

	But he can't see her.

	AT THE EDGE OF CAMP,

	the two rexes join forces, herding the fleeing Hunters into a
	narrow ravine.

	UP ON A ROCK RACE,

	Roland scrambles up a steep rock face.  No way in hell he's
	going down  that ravine.  He sees Malcolm, still in the middle
	of the camp, start to head for the ravine.

				ROLAND
		MALCOLM!  OVER HERE!

	Malcolm runs over and hurls himself at the rock face,
	scrambling to climb up the smooth, steep boulders.

	Behind him, one of the rexes spots him and lunges across the
	camp toward him.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		FASTER!!

	Malcolm gives it everything he's got, clawing his way up the
	rock face --

	-- and rex draws closer and pounces at his legs --

	-- and Roland reaches down, grabs Malcolm by the hair and
	pulls him up, out of the rex's grasp.

	The rex falls short, but he's close enough that we can hear
	his teeth SNAP together, closing around nothing but air.  It
	turns, sees easier prey in the fleeing Hunters, and takes off
	after them.

	Malcolm lands on top of the rock ledge with a CRUNCH.  Roland
	unceremoniously dumps a fistful of hair in his lap.

	IN THE RAVINE,

	Kelly, in the middle of the fleeing crowd with Sarah and Nick,
	hears her father screaming her name and looks up.  Malcolm and
	Roland are on the rock ridge above them, keeping pace.

				MALCOLM
			(shouting)
		KELLY, UP HERE!

	But Kelly continues to flee, as the rexes are in the ravine
	now, and drawing closer to the group.

	Some Hunters try to leap up and scale the rocks, but the
	ravine is deepening, there's no way out.  One rex grabs hold
	of a Hunter in its teeth and hurls him against the rock face.

	The second rex picks up another Hunter and snaps its massive
	head left and right quickly, to break its victim's neck.  The
	Hunter goes flying forward and crashes into --

	-- CARTER, Dieter's driver, who stumbles and falls.  The rest
	of the fleeing humans run around or over him, but when the
	rex lifts its foot, we see Carter is actually stuck to the
	bottom of it --

	-- and when the animal takes its next step it CRUSHES him into
	the earth.

	UP ON TH ROCK FACE,

	Malcolm is frantic.

				MALCOLM
		I gotta get down there!

	DOWN IN THE RAVINE,

	it's obvious no one is going to outrun the rexes, and Nick
	knows it.  He bursts ahead of Sarah and Kelly and spots
	something off to his left.

	It's a waterfall, apparently right in front of a sheer rock
	face.  But there's something about the way the water is
	falling that tells him something.

				NICK
		SARAH KELLY COME HERE!

	He grabs each of them and hauls them forward, running straight
	at the waterfall.  Apparently, he intends to jump right into
	the rock, and he's dragging them along with him.

				SARAH
		WHAT ARE YOU-

				NICK
		JUMP!

	The three of them spring right at the waterfall and disappear
	THROUGH the water.

	DR. BURKE, fleeing along with everyone else, is watching as
	they vanish.

	BEHIND THE WATERFALL,

	there is a small recess, which is what Nick had hoped for.
	It's small, only four or five feet deep, but it's just enough
	for him, Sarah, and Kelly to cover behind the flowing water.
	Breathless, terrified, they can hear the mayhem outside.

				NICK
		Shhhh... shhhh...

	With an enormous SPLASH, something bursts through the
	cascading water and crashes into them.

	Dr. Burke.

				BURKE
		Get out of the way!

	He pulls his way up against the far wall, as far away from the
	water as he can.

	FOOOOM!  Now another shape bursts through the watery curtain.

	A Tyrannosaur head.  Burke gave away the hiding spot.

	The four SCREAM as the rex's jaws SNAP left and right,
	searching for them, falling just inches short.  They squeeze
	as far back against the wall as they can get.

	The rex can't quite get its head all the way through the
	opening --

	-- so it uses its tongue.  A long, dark blue shape slithers
	out of its mouth and touches the humans, trying to wrap around
	them, to pull them out of the cave.

	Burke, blind with panic, forces himself even further into the
	cave, which pushes Kelly further out.

				SARAH
		STOP IT YOU'RE PUSHED HER OUT STOP
		IT!

	But Burke doesn't listen, throwing elbows to make room for
	himself.  His movements dislodge a portion of muddy earth, and
	a flurry of enormous cockroaches, eight or nine inches long
	each, pour out of the wall and swarm over his face and neck.

	Burke SCREAMS and instinctively leaps away, toward the flowing
	water.

	And that's all the leverage the rex needs.  It curls its
	tongue, wrapping Burke up in it and pulling him between its
	teeth.  SCREAMING hideously, he is dragged out, through the
	waterfall, and disappears.

	Sarah, Nick, and Kelly stare in horror as the white screen of
	water turn pink.

	UP ON THE ROCK FACE,

	Malcolm and Roland see the rex walk away from the waterfall
	with Burke, leaving the hiding place unmolested.  Malcolm is
	nearly hysterical.

				ROLAND
		She's okay!  They'll stay in there,
		she's okay!

	IN A JUNGLE CLEARING,

	routed Hunters emerge from the gully at the edge of he
	jungle.  Ahead of them, there is a large open plain covered by
	long "elephant" grass.

	AJAY, running along with them, stops abruptly at the edge of
	the grass, SHOUTING to the others.

				AWAY
		NO!  DON'T GO INTO THE LONG GRASS!

	Not in the frenzy, they ignore him.  Behind Ajay, the enormous
	shadows of the two pursuing tyrannosaurs stop as well, holding
	up at the edge of the jungle.

	Ajay, torn between a sense of responsibility and his better
	judgement, opts for the former and races into the grass after
	the other Hunters, waving his arms.

	UP ABOVE THEM,

	Roland and Malcolm come out onto a rocky ledge that has a view
	of the plain below.  Roland can see the Hunters leaving trails
	as they plow through the grass.

				ROLAND
		Elephant grass!

	ON THE PLAIN,

	the groups of Hunters wades into the middle of the long grass.
	One of them stops and turns, looking back at the jungle trees.

				HUNTER
		They gave up!  They're not chasing
		us!

	There are CHEERS, SIGHS OF relief.  In the distance, AJAY'S
	VOICE can be heard, faintly calling to them to come back.  Up
	on the rock in the distance, they can see Roland, waving his
	arms madly.

	But in the giddiness of their escape, they pay it no mind.
	They continue plowing into the high grass, anything to get
	further away from the tyrannosaurs.

	ABOUT FIFTY YARDS AWAY,

	the tops of three animal heads rise up slowly, backlit by
	the full moon.  In the distance, the heads can seethe Hunter
	party.  The heads descend, back into the grass.

	BACK WITH THE HUNTERS,

	they continue forward, oblivious.  Now behind them, four
	more heads rise up in the grass.  As then descend.

	On all sides of the Hunters, the grass ripples as animals move
	forward toward them, undetected, inexorable as torpedoes.

	And these torpedoes are on target.  One Hunter is suddenly
	dragged down, yanked silently below the surface of the tall
	grass.

	In his place, a long, lizard-like tail rises up as the animal
	drops its head to make the kill.

	Behind him, two more Hunters are taken down, and two more
	animal tails rise up in their place.  A Hunter ahead hears the
	RUSTLING and turns.  His face turns white as, behind him --

	-- a VELOCIRAPTOR springs out of the grass.

	Velociraptor runs upright on its powerfully muscled hind legs,
	the second tow of each foot bearing an extra-large curved
	claw, carried in a retracted position, with which it slashes
	on attack.

	Like now.  This raptor SNARLS and SLAMS into the body of the
	Hunter, taking him down.  A feeding frenzy ensues.  The
	Hunters run in all directions, but are pulled down and vanish
	into the twitching long grass.

	Another raptor enters from the right, leaps high into the air,
	past the full moon, SLAMS into the chest of more human prey,
	and takes him down, into the grass.

	Behind them, Ajay's face falls, defeated.  He looks around,
	realizing he too is now stranded in the middle of the long
	grass.

	Around him, four torpedo trails head straight for him.

	Ajay simply closes his eyes.

	UP ON THE ROCK,

	Roland turns away from the carnage, pained.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. RUINED CAMPSITE - NIGHT

	SARAH, MALCOLM, KELLY, NICK, ROLAND, DR. JUTTSON, and PETER
	LUDLOW stand in the ruins of their campsite, their ranks
	decimated, spirits shattered.

	Roland is at the hole in the ground where his tent once was.
	He has pulled his .800 Nitro Express from the mud and more or
	less cleaned it, now he's checking the loads.

	Kelly, nearly catatonic with fear, clings to Sarah, and it
	doesn't look as if she'll ever let go.  Malcolm, who is on his
	knees picking through the wreckage of a tent, looks over at
	them, but Sarah waves him off -- "she's okay."

	Roland appears, standing over the group.  He looks at Malcolm,
	who has found the Lindstradt rifle, intact.

				ROLAND
		How many rounds did you find for that
		weapon?

				MALCOLM
		Four, counting the one in the
		chamber.

				ROLAND
		Don't let it out of your hands again.
			(to Sara, but looking at
			 Kelly)
		Can the kid walk?

				SARAH
		Ask her.

				ROLAND
		Can the kid walk?

				KELLY
		I can.  I can walk.

	While he addresses the group, Roland straps on one of the
	servo-lights, the shoulder-mounted flashlights that follow
	your gaze.

				ROLAND
		We're going to find a path down into
		the interior of the island.  Load up
		whatever you think you need, and I
		mean need.  If you can't carry it
		indefinitely, don't bring it.  We'll
		hit the worker village in a couple
		hours and be out of here before dawn.

	AT THE EDGE OF CAMP,

	Roland bends over one of the three-toed footprints left by the
	rex.  Behind him, the rest of the group is packing up,
	slinging the remnants of their equipment over their shoulders.

	Roland bends over and SNIFFS the footprint.  It's filled with
	a liquid of some kind.

	He takes his canteen, dumps the remaining water into the
	ground, and plunges the canteen into the footprint, filling
	it.  Ludlow hovers over his shoulder.

				LUDLOW
		What is that?

				ROLAND
		Piss.

	Ludlow doesn't ask.

	NOW AT THE FIRE,

	Roland stares down at the ashes of the cooking fire that led
	to such disaster.  He grabs a handful of the ash and shoves it
	in his pants pocket.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. VALLEY OF DEATH - NIGHT

	ROLAND and LUDLOW (who, along with Sarah and Malcolm, is also
	wearing a servo-light now) maneuver down a rugged hillside and
	come out in a flattened area.  Ludlow GASPS, looking ahead in
	wonderment.  MALCOLM breaks through the hillside's foliage a
	moment later.  He too stares in amazement.

	SARAH and KELLY come next, then NICK, then JUTTSON.  One by
	one, they all stop and stare.

				SARAH
		God help us.

	They're standing in a flat, sandy area lined with boulders at
	the sides.  The flat area stretches fifty yards from side to
	side and as far as they can see ahead.  But that's not what
	amazes them so.

	Everywhere, the sand is dotted with dinosaur skeletons.  Some
	are huge, apatosaurs, sixty feet from head to tail tip.
	Others are smaller, herbivores of many different kinds.  The
	more intact skeletons lie on their sides, their ribcages arcs
	of pale bone.  but just as many have been ripped apart, bits
	of carcass tossed in every direction.

				NICK
		I do not feel lucky.

				ROLAND
		Keep moving.

	They march on, tiny figures moving among the mountainous
	skeletons by the light of the full moon.  Roland notices one
	carcass in particular, a recent kill.  It's an enormous
	HADROSAUR with fresh bites taken out of it.

	He bends down, studying the soft earth around it for
	footprints.

	FURTHER ON,

	Malcolm looks up, noticing the bony shapes around them, which
	fall in heavy shadows like cell bars, seem to be changing.

	He turns, and his servo-light shines on the bones.  But
	they're not bones any more at all, they're pipes, the animal
	graveyard now given over to the lifeless skeletons of manmade
	objects -- twisted, rotting machinery.

				LUDLOW
		We made it!

	They hurry over a small rise --

	EXT. WORKER VILLAGE - NIGHT

	-- and find themselves at the edge of what was once Isla
	Sorna's worker village.  The size of a football field, the
	town is divided by a main street that's dotted on both sides
	by stores, residences, cafes, a gas station.  All the way at
	the far end is a large, blocky, four-story building.

	But the town is a mess.  The hurricane that hit here must have
	been ferocious, for everywhere things are smashed, broken,
	upended.  And the jungle has stepped into the breath, growing
	up, around, and over everything.  Huge root systems snake
	through the street, making it almost impassable.

				MALCOLM
		The jungle.  It's always ready to
		return.

	Roland catches up and looks at Ludlow.

				ROLAND
		Where's the power and radio setup?

				LUDLOW
		Operations building.  Far end of the
		street.

	A light rain falls as they start down the street, carefully,
	silently, Roland and Malcolm with their weapons at the ready.

	They pass the skeleton of a fallen water tower.  An empty gas
	station, its vine-snarled pumps now useless.  The only sound
	is the low mechanical HUM of the servo-lights as they follow
	the group's gazes obediently.

	Every few feet, the group encounters strange, grayish lumps
	that lies in random places in the middle of the street.
	Malcolm, curious, stops and taps one of them.  It's a rock-hard.
	Nick looks over his shoulder.

				NICK
		Lava?

				MALCOLM
		No.

				NICK
		What are they?

				MALCOLM
		I don't know.

	Finally, they reach the operation building, at the far end of
	the town.

				LUDLOW
		The radio rig is inside.  It runs
		directly from the geothermal
		generator, so power shouldn't be a
		problem.

				ROLAND
		Good.

	He pulls out his canteen.  Ludlow watches as he screws the top
	off, moves toward the building, and starts splashing the
	contents on the outside of it.

	The rest of the group just stares at him.

				MALCOLM
		What's he got in there?

				LUDLOW
		Piss.

				SARAH
		What?

				LUDLOW
		Don't ask me.  The guy's completely
		out to lunch.

				NICK
		What in God's name would he want
		with-

	Roland rejoins them.

				ROLAND
		Tyrannosaur urine.  I don't want
		anything to do with it, and neither
		does any other animal on this island.
		This building is now demarcated as
		the rex's territory.  As long as you 
		stay in that building, you'll all be
		safe until the helicopter comes.

	He drops his pack, swings his gun off his shoulder, and checks
	the load.  Dr. Juttson looks fearful.

				JUTTSON
		Where are you going?

				ROLAND
		After the rex.  I saw a fresh kill
		back in the valley with tyrannosaur
		tracks all around it.  If I'm not
		back in time, don't wait for me.

				SARAH
		You've got to be kidding.

				ROLAND
		Runs against my nature to hole up in
		a cave and wait.

				LUDLOW
		Do you think the rex might have the
		infant with it?

				ROLAND
		Possible.

	Ludlow takes off his hat and turns to Nick.

				LUDLOW
		You know how to work a radio, don't
		you?

				SARAH
		You're going too?

				LUDLOW
		I lost everything I came after on
		this trip, but one T-rex in one theme
		park could single-handedly bail
		InGen out of Chapter 11.

	He takes a slip of paper from the brim of his hat and hands it
	to Nick.

				LUDLOW (cont'd)
		This is the broadcast frequency.  ID
		yourself as "Harvest Leader."  You
		know what to tell 'em.

				MALCOLM
		You gentlemen feel you have to do
		this now?

				ROLAND
		Now's the perfect time.  The animal
		just fed, so it won't stalk us for
		food.  Predators don't hurt when
		they're not hungry.

	Ludlow double checks the clip on his semi-automatic rifle --

				NICK
		No.

	-- and SMACKS it back into the belly of the gun.

				NICK (cont'd)
		Only humans do.

							CUT TO:

	INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - NIGHT

	The console of a sophisticated radio set-up glows brightly,
	all green, red, and yellow.  NICK tunes the dial to a specific
	frequency.  The radio WHINES and HISSES tuning in.

				NICK
			(into microphone)
		CQ, CQ.  This is InGen Operation
		Harvest Leader to Harvest Base.  Come
		in, please.

	The remaining SURVIVORS, minus Ludlow and Roland, shine their
	flashlights around the dusty, vine-hung interior of the
	communications room.  On the wall a row of chrome letters says
	"We Make The Future,"  but the words are obscured by a tangle
	of vines.  Mushrooms and fungi sprout from the carpet.

	On one wall, there is a mural of what the completed Jurassic
	Park would have looked like.  Big hotels, Ford Explorers with
	tourists leaning out the windows taking pictures, big crowds
	at the fences around the animal exhibits.  But none of it came
	true, and now even the mural is runny and dust-covered.

	There is a pause, filed only with radio static.  Sarah looks
	at Nick tensely, waiting.  Finally, a VOICE comes over the
	radio, clean as can be.

				VOICE (o.s.)
		Go ahead, Harvest Leader.

	They all breath a sign of relief.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

	With Roland and Ludlow gone on the hunt and the rest of the
	group inside the operations building, main street stands
	deserted and silent.

	Nearly deserted, anyway.  Moonlight shadows lengthen at one
	end of the street --

	-- and FIVE VELOCIRAPTORS STROLL INTO TOWN.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. VALLEY OF DEATH - NIGHT

	ROLAND AND LUDLOW are back in the valley of death, standing
	amid the giant skeletons of long-dead animals.  Roland bends
	down, checking the carcass of the freshly-chewed HADROSAUR he
	saw earlier.

	A set of giant three-toed rex tracks leads away from the
	carcass, down the stream bed.  Roland follows them.  Ludlow
	follows Roland.

	As they near a bend in the stream, Roland looks down, at the
	surface of the water.  A pattern of ripples moves toward them,
	washing over their ankles.  Roland follows the ripples with
	his eyes.  From up head, around the bend, he can hear the
	sound of an animal eating and drinking.  A very large animal.

	He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a  pinch of the ashes
	from the cooking fire that he scooped up earlier and releases
	that on the wind.  They float there for a second, suspended,
	then blow back at him.

				LUDLOW
		We're downwind.  Good.

	Roland darts a contemptuous look at him.  He puts a finger to
	his lips, gesturing for silence, then steps up, onto the
	shore.  Ludlow follows.

	They creep forward, toward the sounds.  They round the bend
	and Roland hits his belly, edging up over a small rise.

	Over the rise, he sees the TYRANNOSAUR, about a hundred yards
	ahead.  It's stooped over the stream bed, drinking.  Like a
	bird, it dips its head in the water and then straightens up,
	to let the water fall down its throat.  A dozen COMPYS are at
	the water as well, drinking.

	Roland gently FLICKS the safety on his gun to "off."

	Ludlow edges toward the cover of a low-hanging branch.  As he
	puts his weight on one knee, it presses down hard on the
	middle of a small stick, which CRACKS in half.  Roland turns,
	eyes blazing.

	Out in the open, the tyrannosaur snaps its head sharply as
	well, staring in the direction of the sound.  But since
	Roland's own head is turned, he doesn't see the dinosaur's
	reaction.  Roland holds a warning finger out to Ludlow.

	Roland turns his head back.  The tyrannosaur is gone.

	FURTHER ON,

	the trail of three-toed tyrannosaur footprints stops abruptly.
	Roland stops too, gesturing for Ludlow to freeze behind him.
	Roland glances both ways, looking for any sign of the track.

	To the right, the ground gives way to hard black volcanic rock.
	A short distance behind them, the rock is solid, a massive,
	green, pebbled boulder ten feet high.  Roland frowns and
	WHISPERS in Ludlow's ear again.

				ROLAND
		We took to the rock.

				LUDLOW
		Why?

	In front of Roland, a palm frond sways gently in the night
	breeze.  Roland's eyes widen.  He pulls out another pinch of
	campfire ash and releases it on the wind.

	This time, the ash blows off, straight away from him.

				ROLAND
		Wind shift.

	They freeze, terrified.  Behind them, the enormous green
	pebbled boulder --

	-- opens an eye.

	That's no boulder, that's the MALE TYRANNOSAUR, standing
	rock-solid still, its natural camouflage blending into the
	surrounding foliage perfectly.  Very slowly and almost
	silently, the rex brings its head all the way around until it
	is staring directly down at them from about ten feet away.

	Roland and Ludlow stand frozen, their back to the rex,
	unaware of its presence.

	Until it exhales.  The soft SNORT of its breath isn't quite
	audible, but it brushes the hair on the backs of their necks
	ever so slightly.

	Their hearts drop into their stomachs.  Ludlow speaks, his
	voice a queasy HISS.

				LUDLOW
		It's... behind... us.

				ROLAND
			(the very softest whisper)
		It's just fed.  It won't attack unless
		it's threatened.  Don't move.

	As the rex silently cocks its head, sizing up the danger from
	these intruders, it breathes again.  A few strands of Ludlow's
	hair flap in the exhalation.  He closes his eyes, near tears.

	He can't take it.  His eyes dart, glancing down at the weapon
	he holds in his hands.  Unfortunately, it's extended in front
	of him, away from the rex.

	He risks another HISS.

				LUDLOW
		If I don't move, I can't shoot it.

				ROLAND
		Let it go, Peter.  The animal won.

	Behind them, the rex appears satisfied.  It starts to swing
	its massive head around, back toward the jungle.  It lifts one
	great leg and takes a step into the trees.

	Roland signs and closes his eyes, relieved.

	But Ludlow seizes the opportunity.  He whips his weapon around
	and drops to one knee.

				ROLAND (cont'd)
		NO!

	The rex is infinitely quicker.  Ludlow just has time to
	squeeze off a short burst of semi-automatic gunfire when the
	animal whirls, takes one elegant step forward, and POUNCES.

	Ludlow's bullets rip harmlessly through the foliage between
	the rex's legs as its big head snaps forward and comes down,
	jaws wide.  They close around Ludlow's body, lift his straight
	up into the air, and toss him once, readjusting their grip so
	it is firmly around his midsection.

	The whole combination of movements takes but half a second.
	By the time Roland turns around, the animal has pivoted and
	darted back into the jungle, carrying Ludlow, still SCREAMING
	and writhing in its mouth.

	Roland raises his gun, to draw a bead on the animal, but
	through the shivering trees, he can only see that the
	tyrannosaur is gone.

							CUT TO:

	INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - NIGHT

	MALCOLM SARAH, NICK, KELLY, and DR. JUTTSON wait nervously in
	the communications room.  An empty can of Dr. Pepper sitting
	on one of the countertops begins to RATTLE.  They look over at
	it, confused, as the lightweight aluminum can CHATTERS on the
	formica counter.

	Other objects in the lab begin to rattle too.  Glass jars
	CLANK against one another, books start to drop off the
	shelves, a stool shudders across the floor.

				KELLY
		What's going on?!

	Above them, the rotting wooden roof of the building starts to
	actually tear away, chunks of moldy timber flying up into
	the night.  They look up, a deafening ROAR fills the room --

	-- and a helicopter's searchlight floods in!

	As the chopper dips lower, looking for a place to land, the
	violent prop wash rips away huge chunks of the roof over their
	heads.

	INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT

	Up above the operations building, the helicopter circles.  The
	roof of the building is all arches and rotten timber,
	impossible to land open.

	Below, the PILOTS see the SURVIVORS through the torn roof of
	the building.  They wave frantically, their flashlight beams
	piercing the night sky.

				PILOT
		There they are!

	The Co-Pilot scans the street below, but it's choked with
	overturned cars and fallen trees.

				CO-PILOT
		No LZ in the street, too much debris!

				PILOT
		Check the other buildings!

	The Co-Pilot nods and they peel off, swooping over the rest of
	the village.

	At the far end of the street, the Co-Pilot brings the
	searchlight to bear on the large, flat roof of a three story
	building.

	The Pilot gives him a thumbs-up.

	EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

	MALCOLM, SARAH, KELLY, NICK and finally DR. JUTTSON run out
	the front of the operations building.  At the end of the
	street, they can see the helicopter as it descends slowly over
	the building, to land on its roof.

				MALCOLM
		There it is!

	Happily, the group double-times it down the street, headed for
	the chopper.  Again, those strange rock formations are
	everywhere.  Some seem to be on the sides of buildings, as if
	they once dripped there and then turned to stone.

	This time Sarah pauses at one that is dripping over to the side
	of a car like solidified lava.  Her face falls as a thought
	occurs to her.

				SARAH
		Ian.  It's guano.

				MALCOLM
		What?

				SARAH
		These formations.  They're dried --

				MALCOLM
		Birdshit?

	A VELOCIRAPTORS jumps onto a fallen tree trunk behind them.

	They don't see it.

				NICK
		Who cares?  Let's go!

	Unaware of the raptor's presence, they resume their trot
	toward the helicopter.  Behind them, the raptor crouches and
	SNARLS, but the sound is lost under the WHINE of the
	helicopter's engines.  It springs, covering the distance
	between them quickly.

	The animal SLAMS into JUTTSON, the last person in the group,
	and takes him down.  Juttson is thrown forward, into the
	others, who fall like dominoes.

	Juttson SCREAMS, his voice an unnatural, high-pitched SQUEAL,
	as the raptor flips him over and lowers its jaws into him.

	Sarah looks up, panicked.  Her eyes widen at the sight of a
	SECOND RAPTOR, this one running straight at hr at top speed.
	She buries her face in the dirt, covering her head with her
	hands --

	-- and the raptor's foot SLAMS into the ground between her
	legs as it bounds over her and dives onto Juttson, joining the
	first raptor in the kill.

	Panicked, the group scatters in all directions.  Kelly jumps
	up and scrambles into the middle of the street, where she hits
	the dirt and crawls under a fallen shed in the middle of the
	road.

	Malcolm rolls over to the space where Kelly was, but she's
	gone now.  He looks around frantically.

				MALCOLM
		Kelly?!  KELLY?!

	Sarah rolls onto her feet and sprints toward the building
	nearest her.

	Behind her, a THIRD RAPTOR gives chase, bounding after her
	with horrifying speed.  Sarah runs flat-out, but her speed is
	nothing compared to the raptor's, and it gains on her rapidly.

	The walls of a structure of some kind close in around Sarah,
	and as she leaps across a leather seat and SLAMS a door behind
	her, we realize she's crawled into the back seat of an
	abandoned car.

	But the car door is thin protection against the charging
	raptor, which SLAMS into the window, head first.  The window
	spinderwebs, but does not yield.  The raptor crumples to the
	ground.

	Sarah looks up, through a three inch hole in the middle of the
	web.  The raptor leaps back to its feet and plunges its nose
	into the tiny hole, thrashing, widening it.

	Sarah SCREAMS and the animal forces its entire head through
	the hole, SNAPPING its jaws just short of her face.

	She hurls herself over the seat and into the front as the
	animal penetrates even further into the car, but its torso
	will not fit through the window opening.  It pulls away.

	In the front seat, Sarah gets some very bad news.

	There's no windshield.

	The raptor springs up onto the hood, its claws CLATTERING on
	the sheet metal, and tosses its body through the opening --

	-- just as Sarah hurls herself out the door.  While the raptor
	struggles to right itself in the front seat, Sarah runs to the
	nearest building, ducks inside, and SLAMS the heavy wooden
	door.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

	MALCOLM races between the idled gas pumps and into the gas
	station building, closing the door behind him.  A moment
	later, a raptor bounds after him, SLAMMING into the door.

	Meeting resistance, it bounces off, notices the plate glass
	window next to the door, and pounces at that.  The window
	SHATTERS and the raptor clings to the ledge, staring inside,
	its tail hanging out.

	Just as it gets inside, Malcolm opens the door and comes back
	out, keeping the place of wall between them.  He pulls the
	Lindstradt rifle off his back and tries to take aim --

	-- but the raptor whirls and springs, forcing him back inside,
	through the door again.

	Willing to play along, the raptor turns and jumps through the
	window again.

	INT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

	Balancing on the window frame, the raptor HISSES and crouches,
	ready to spring at Malcolm.

	Malcolm takes cover behind the door, which is hanging open
	between them.  He raises the rifle.

	Th raptor springs into the door, BLASTING it off its hinges,
	knocking Malcolm right through a window behind him.

	But the door SMACKS up against the wall, covering the window,
	preventing the raptor from following Malcolm out that way.

	For the moment.

	EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

	Malcolm flies through the window and CRUNCHES to the ground.
	He GROANS  in agony and rolls off his bad leg, which is twisted
	unnaturally beneath him, and claws in the mud for the gun.

	ROUGH HANDS reach down, grab him by the shirt, and haul him to
	his feet.  It's NICK.  He drags Malcolm away, but in the
	commotion Nick's duffel slips off his shoulder and lands in
	the street, spilling some of the precious videotapes.

	Malcolm scoops them up.

				NICK
		Come on!

				MALCOLM
		Where's Kelly?

				NICK
		She's with Sarah!

	They race off, down the street.

							CUT TO:

	INT. KILN HOUSE - NIGHT

	High above SARAH, we see she is standing alone in a three
	story kiln house, a windowless shed used for firing pottery
	and other construction projects.  Catwalks lined with heavy
	chains hang above her, and onto the floor below, she turns in
	circles, wondering what to do now.

	From outside the kiln house, she hears SCRATCHING, digging
	sounds.  From the other side of the door comes an animal
	SNORT, and a small puff of dust and dirt billows up through
	the crack along the ground.

	ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR,

	the claws of one of the raptors dig furiously, trying to
	tunnel underneath.

	INSIDE,

	Sarah runs to the opposite wall, falls to her knees, and
	starts digging a tunnel of her own, clawing frantically at the
	ganging tools always and CLANKS as it tears at the earth below
	it.

	Sarah digs faster.  So does the raptor.

	With about eight inches of space under the wall, Sarah grabs
	hold of the bottom of one of the plans and pries it up as
	hard as she can.  It snaps off with a loud CRACK.

	At the door, the raptor stops digging.  It's silent for a
	moment.

	Sarah has a good foot and a half of space under her wall now.
	She starts to lower her body into it --

	-- JUST AS THE RAPTOR'S CLAWS FLASH THROUGH FROM THE OTHER
	SIDE!

	Sarah falls back, SCREAMING, leaps to her feet, and jumps up,
	grabbing hold of one of the catwalks above.  She starts to
	climb, up, anywhere up, as the RAPTOR now squirms and thrashes
	its way inside, coming in through her hole.

	Sarah climbs, hauling herself up, leaping from one catwalk to
	another.

	The raptor leaps up onto a catwalk as well and follows her.

	EXT. KILM HOUSE - NIGHT

	A window in the slanted roof of the kiln house EXPLODES in a
	shower of glass as SARAH kicks through it and climbs outside.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

	Nick drags a badly limping MALCOLM down the main street.  They
	can see helicopter at the far end, engine ROARING and
	searchlight playing over them as they draw closer.  They
	approach a rusted, abandoned pickup in the middle of the
	street --

	-- and a RAPTOR leaps on top of it.  Its claws CLACK on the
	roof as it goes into its pre-attack crouch.

	They don't stick around to negotiate.  Nick hauls Malcolm off
	into the nearest building.

	INT. WORKER HOTEL - NIGHT

	NICK and MALCOLM hurry inside and SLAM the door behind them.
	They're standing in the lobby of a hotel of some kind,
	probably used for overnight guests and day workers who had to
	spend the night.  The room and staircase wind around a large,
	open-aired central area four stories tall.  They SHOUT at each
	other, frantic.

				MALCOLM
		We can't stay in here!

				NICK
		We're sure as hell not going back out
		there"

				MALCOLM
		This is single-wall construction!
		It's just a shack!

				NICK
		It'll hold!

				MALCOLM
		For sixty seconds, maybe!  Look at
		this!
			(RAPS on the door with his
			 knuckles)
		You could-

	With a CRASH, the wood SPRINTERS around the lock and the door
	swings open violently.  Malcolm is thrown aside, landing hard
	on the floor.

	A VELOCIRAPTOR stands HISSING in the doorway.  Nick throws his
	weight against the door.  SLAMMING it hard against the raptor.

	Malcolm rolls over and paws the gun off his back.

	SLAM!  The raptor charges the door again, this time BLASTING
	it off its hinges, knocking Nick to the floor beneath it.  The
	raptor turns and SNARLS at Malcolm.

	Malcolm swings the gun around --

	-- the raptor lunges at him --

	-- Malcolm's finger closes on the trigger --

	-- and the raptor lands on top of him.

	The weight of the animal CRUSHES him into the floor, but the
	gun barrel now stands between them.  The raptor CHOMPS down
	hard on the barrel, its teeth GRINDING on the metal, and SNAPS
	its head, to tear it from Malcolm's hands.

	Malcolm pulls the trigger.

	The raptor's eyes pop wide as the dart SLAMS into the back of
	its throat.  It makes a GURGLING sound, then convulses
	violently and rolls off of Malcolm, yanking the gun from his
	hands as it falls and dies.

	Nick scrambles out from under the door.  Malcolm tries to
	wrench the gun from the raptor's clenched jaws, but it won't
	budge.

				NICK
			(helping him out)
		Head for the roof!

				MALCOLM
		I have to find Kelly!

				NICK
		I think she's with Sarah!

				MALCOLM
		DAMN IT, BE SURE!!

							CUT TO:

	EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

	KELLY remains huddled under the fallen shed, trembling with
	fear.  She holds her breath and freezes, as just outside, only
	two feet from where she's hiding --

	-- a RAPTOR'S FEET pick their way past her, down the middle of
	the street.

	Kelly closes her eyes and suppresses a scream.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

	NICK and MALCOLM burst onto the roof of the now-burning
	hotel and SLAM the door behind them.  The helicopter is now
	only three rooftops away.  They turn and head for it, Nick in
	the lead, but there's an eight foot gap between the buildings.

				MALCOLM
		It's too wide!

	Nick looks around, desperate.  A fallen power pole leans
	against the building they're standing on, its lines gone
	slack.

				NICK
		Help me push this!

	Malcolm understands.  He and Nick throw a shoulder into the
	pole and give it a mighty push, tipping it over in the other
	direction.  One good hard shove and it falls to the far
	building, THUDDING against it solidly.

	Its power lines are not taut, a lifeline from this rooftop to
	the next.  Nick grabs hold and starts to pull himself across
	the gap, hand over hand.

	Behind them, the door of the building SPLINTERS and CRASHES
	open as a raptor throws all its weight into it.  Malcolm leaps
	onto the power line without hesitation and starts pulling
	himself across.

	But even with the door wide open, the raptor on the other side
	hesitates.  It SNARLS and backs away, refusing to come out
	onto the roof.

	ON THE OTHER ROOFTOP,

	Malcolm lands next to Nick on the second rooftop.  They look
	back at the frightened animal, which takes tow steps out onto
	the roof, SNARLS, and backs into the doorway again.

				NICK
		It's afraid to come onto the roof!

	Malcolm looks around, at the rooftop.  Strange bits of scrap
	and debris seem to have been arranged there, in an odd,
	concentric pattern.

				MALCOLM
		Something's wrong.

				NICK
		Look!  Sarah!

	He points to the roof of the kilm house, in the distance.
	Malcolm turns, and sees SARAH crawling across the tile.  His
	face turns white.

				MALCOLM
		SHE'S ALONE!!

							CUT TO:

	EXT. KILM HOUSE ROOF - NIGHT

	SARAH has problems.  Still on top of the kilm house, she
	reaches the edge and pushes off the roof, leaping to the roof
	of the next building.

	She lands at the peak of the intersection of the two sides of
	sloping roof.  As she pulls herself up --

	-- a RAPTOR appears on the rooftop behind her.  In full
	stride, it leaps, sails over her, and lands on the roof
	ahead of her.

	Sarah swings to her left and starts to crawl down the slope,
	away from the raptor.  Suddenly the roof board under her
	SPRINTERS and CRACKS under her weight.  The whole section
	pulls up and starts to slide off the roof.  Sarah, clinging to
	it, rides the roof  planks down, away from the raptor.

	She looks over her shoulder, down --

	-- and sees ANOTHER RAPTOR, waiting for her on the roof of the
	building below.

	Sarah quickly rolls off the sliding section of roof, which
	keeps sliding, falling.  The raptor below jumps up, just in
	time to get WHACKED in the head by the falling roof section.

	Sarah tries to cling to the Spanish tile roof, fingers and
	nails slipping on the slick ceramic surface.  She slides all
	the way to the edge, grabs hold of the gutter, and dangles
	there, suspended above one raptor and trapped below another.

	The raptor above works its way down.  The one below leaps up,
	at her dangling legs.  She has left them in time with its
	jumps, to avoid losing her feet.  This can't go on for long.

	Desperate, she pulls one of the Spanish tiles up from the roof
	and hurls it at the raptor below.  It hits the animal in the
	head, for all the good that does.

	But Sarah keeps on, pulling and throwing more tiles.  She
	edges to the right, toward a fresh supply.

	The raptor above edges even closer, claws CLICKING on the
	slick roof.

	Something interesting is happening.  As Sarah pulls the loose
	tiles free, the ones above slide down, to take their place.
	Sarah sees this and pulls more free, knocking them out of the
	way as fast as she can.

	Suddenly an avalanche of loose tiles breaks loose and the
	footing underneath the raptor above disintegrates.  The
	animal's feet flail and grasp, it slides towards the edge amid
	the tumbling tiles.

	Sarah, seeing it coming, swings in close to the building,
	hugging it as closely as she can.  The raptor falls off the
	roof, right past her --

	-- and CRUNCHES into the raptor below.  Both animals SNARK and
	attack one another.

	Now Sarah, her grip exhausted, falls too, landing right next
	to the enraged animals.  They fight and roll, RIGHT OVER HER.
	She GROANS and hugs the wood below her, the raptors continue
	to thrash and bite, they roll back, toward her, she rolls out
	of their way --

	-- and plunges through a hole in the roof.

	INT. LAB - NIGHT

	Sarah falls through the roof of a deserted laboratory and
	lands in the tray of an old-fashioned hanging fluorescent
	light fixture.

	One end of the fixture's support SNAPS, it drops at a 45
	degree angle, Sarah slides out the other end and CRASHES
	through a window.

	EXT. STREET - NIGHT

	Sarah lands in the mud in the street below.

							CUT TO:

EXT. BETWEEN TWO BUILDING - NIGHT

	With a THUD, MALCOLM lands in the mud between two other
	building, one of which he has just climbed off of.  Panicked,
	he leaps to his feet and starts to SHOUT.

				MALCOLM
		Kelly!  KELLY!

							CUT TO:

	EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

	SARAH sprints down the main street as fast as she can, toward
	the building on which sits the helicopter.  Above her, she can
	see NICK has now reached the helicopter and is waving to her.

	Sarah reaches the fallen water tower, which is next to the
	helicopter building, and starts to climb it.

	ELSEWHERE IN THE STREET,

	KELLY is still covering underneath the fallen shed.  In the
	distance, she can see the helicopter.  But she is trembling
	with fear, unable to move.

	The whole shed suddenly RATTLES as something heavy hits it
	outside.  Kelly's mouth drops open to scream, but her terror
	is so complex that no sound comes out.  She raises her hands
	in self-defense, whatever's outside ROARS with effort, the
	entire shed is suddenly RIPPED right up off of her, and she
	looks up --

	-- into her father's eyes.

				KELLY
		Dad!

				MALCOLM
		Come on!

	He grabs her by the hand and they take off down the street.

	ON THE ROOFTOP,

	Sarah emerges at the top of the water tower structure and
	leaps onto the roof, into Nick's arms.

				NICK
		Where's Kelly?

				SARAH
		Where's Ian?

	Eyes wide with panic, they both turn and look down at the
	street below, where they see KELLY and MALCOLM, racing at top
	speed down the middle of the street --

	-- WITH A VELOCIRAPTOR CHASING THEM.

	DOWN IN THE STREET,

	Malcolm and Kelly have a twenty yard advantage on the animal.
	They're pretty fast, but it's faster.

	Above them, Nick and Sarah are at the edge of the roof,
	SHOUTING and urging them on.  They push it, faster.

	They reach the base of the fallen water tower, the jumble of
	struts and metal poles that Sarah climbed.

				MALCOLM
		CLIMB!

	Kelly leaps ahead of him and grabs hold of one of the poles,
	pulling herself neatly up to her feet and reaching for the
	next one.

	Malcolm stretches and makes the same effort, but for him it's
	much harder.

	Below them, the raptor springs and SLAMS into the struts,
	shaking the whole structure.  It pulls itself up.

	Higher up, Kelly climbs fast, hands gliding over the poles.
	She breaks out into the open, where a long, narrow pole runs
	on a slight incline up to the roof.  She scampers across it,
	running the balance beam.

	She reaches the other side, on a ledge below the roofline, and
	looks back.  Malcolm is at the other end, hesitating, drained,
	breathing hard.

				KELLY
		DAD, COME ON!

	Below him, the raptor closes in.  Malcolm sets out across the
	beam, his legs shaking.  He places his feet carefully, he
	doesn't have nearly the balance Kelly did.

	The raptor draws closer.

				KELLY (cont'd)
		FASTER!

	Malcolm slips.

	One foot twists right off the bar and he spins, arms flailing,
	trying to regain his tenuous balance.

	But he overcompensates and his whole body, wrenches out from
	under him.  He falls, the bar SMACKS him hard in the chest,
	knocking the wind out of him, and he drops, flipping right off
	the bar and bouncing painfully through the maze of bars below.

	He drops right past the pursuing velociraptor, CRUNCHING to
	a halt in a nest of bars ten feet off the ground, probably
	cracking a rib.  Kelly SCREAMS from above him.

				KELLY (cont'd)
		DAD!

	She stares down in horror at her father.  Wrenched in among
	the bars, Malcolm is helpless as the animal crouches only six
	feet above him now, with an open attack route.

	The animal SNARKS and goes into its pre-attack crouch.

	Up above, Kelly wipes the palms of her hands on her jeans
	and leaps out into space, grabbing hold of one of the bars.

	The raptor springs.

	Kelly spins around, over the top of the bar, and, at the very
	peak of her trajectory, she lets go.

	The raptor sails through down from above, feet first, SLAMMING
	both of them squarely into the raptor's side, sending it
	hurtling into space.

	She lands hard and awkwardly, CLANGING into the spidery
	scaffolding next to Malcolm as the raptor SMASHES to the
	ground below.  But Kelly manages to hold on.

				KELLY
		GET UP!

	She grabs hold of Malcolm and pulls him to his feet.

	ON THE ROOF,

	Kelly and Malcolm appear over the roofline.  The PILOTS SHOUTS
	from inside.

				PILOT
		LET'S GO LET'S GO LET'S GO!!

	Malcolm and Kelly scramble toward the helicopter.  But at the
	opposite side of the roof, a RAPTOR claws its way over the
	edge as well.

	Malcolm sees it and they lunge for the helicopter, but the
	animal is far faster.  It's only ten feet away, then five,
	they're surely done for this time, when --

	-- KA-BOOM!

	There comes the loudest single gunshot anyone has ever heard,
	and the raptor flies off its feet and lands ten feet across
	the roof, dead.  They look up, to the source of the
	gunshot.

	It's ROLAND, standing at the edge of the roof, holding his
	smoking .600 Nitro Express.

	But there's no time for celebration, as suddenly the
	helicopter's left skid CRACKS right through the surface of the
	roof.

				PILOT
		HURRY!  THE ROOF'S GIVING WAY!

	The skid dips even further, ripping right through the
	thatch-and-wood construction.  Kelly, who had one foot in the
	helicopter, loses her balance --

	-- as the roof caves in beneath her.

				MALCOLM
		KELLY!

	She falls,  SCREAMING, through the hole and down, into the
	building below.

	ONE FLOOR DOWN,

	Kelly lands with a CRUNCH on the floor immediately below the
	roof, about nine feet down.  But her landing is cushioned by
	an inordinate amount of straw and leaves that have been
	arranged there.  She lifts one hand, and a yellowy, viscous
	substance drips off of it.

	It's yolk.  She looks around, noticing half a dozen large,
	oblong shapes.  Eggs.

	Above her, Malcolm is scrambling, climbing down to her through
	the wreckage of the CREAKING, crumbling roof.

				MALCOLM
		Kelly!  I'm coming!

	Kelly climbs to her knees, but behind her, a large, dark shape
	is moving.  Rising.  Unfolding, in a way.

	IT'S A PTERANODON.

	Yep, flying dinosaur.  The enormous animal raises its head, a
	brilliant blue crest extending two feet behind its long,
	saber-like beak.  It SQUAWKS at Kelly in fury.  She can only
	stare, spellbound.

	Malcolm reaches her and grabs hold as the angry animal unfurls
	its massive twenty-two foot wingspread.

	ON THE ROOF,

	the helicopter lurches as it sinks further into the crumbling
	roof, and now the skids are getting tangled in the debris.
	Roland races over to the hole, climbs in a few feet, and
	starts kicking at it, making it larger.

				ROLAND
		Give me a ladder!

	IN THE PTERANODON NEST,

	Malcolm tries to haul Kelly back up the way he came, but a
	SECOND PTERANODON now appears from the depths of the building,
	SCREECHING in fury at these invaders who have landed in the
	middle of their clutch of eggs.

	An emergency rescue ladder drops through the hole in the roof.
	Malcolm grabs Kelly with one arm and the ladder with the other
	and they start to climb out of the nest.

	ON THE ROOF,

	Malcolm and Kelly climb the ladder and are pulled into the
	belly of the chopper just as two enormous beaks break
	through the surface of the roof around them.

	The pteranodons are emerging.

				MALCOLM
		GO GO GO GO GOG GO!

	The helicopter lurches up a few feet, but it yanked to an
	abrupt stop.  The engines WHINE, the chopper just hovers
	there.

				PILOT
		We're snagged on something!

	They loos down. BOTH PTERANODONS have come out through the
	hole in the roof and are clinging to the skids of the
	helicopter.  They flap their gigantic wings in unison, and
	drag the helicopter off, into the air, away from the nest --

	-- and let go.  Freed, the helicopter gains altitude quickly.

	IN THE HELICOPTER,

	the PILOTS gape as the pteranodons coast along, right next to
	the helicopter.

				PILOT
		Hang on!  If I tip it hard, I can cut
		'em with the rotors!

				SARAH
		NO!  Don't!  They're not attacking!

	They look out the windows, where, indeed, the magnificent
	animals are merely accompanying them, flying escort as the
	chopper gains altitude.

				SARAH (cont'd)
		They're protecting their nest.
		That's all.  That's all they're
		doing.

	Kelly, completely drained, sits between Sarah and Malcolm,
	each of whom has a protective arm around her.  She sags
	against her father's chest, nothing left.

	He holds her tight and WHISPERS in her ear.

				MALCOLM
		Thank you.  Kelly, thank God.  Thank
		God for you...

	IN THE NIGHT SKY,

	over the island, the helicopter steadily gains altitude.  A
	hundred feet.  Three hundred.  A thousand.

	As the helicopter is clearly leaving the island, the
	pteranodons now peel off, their job done.  One of them banks
	sharply, right in front of the moon.  The moonlight
	silhouettes it, shining right through its membranous wings,
	lighting it up like a Halloween skeleton.

	Below, the tiny green island melts away into the vastness of
	the wine-dark sea.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. TYRANNOSAUR NEST - NIGHT

	Elsewhere in the forest, it's not such a happy story.  PETER
	LUDLOW, still alive, drops through the air and CRUNCHES to the
	muddy ground.  Dizzy, bleeding, the breath knocked out of him,
	he opens his eyes and sees a sloping bank of dried mud.

	From behind him, he hears a CHIRPING sound.  He turns.

	He's in the tyrannosaur nest.

	The BABY TYRANNOSAUR faces him, still with a strange
	aluminum-foil cast on its leg.  The baby SQUEAKS with
	excitement as it toddles toward him.

	Ludlow scrambles to his feet, unsure what to do.  Both ADULT
	TYRANNOSAURS stand outside the nest, staring down at him.

	The baby runs toward Ludlow, so he turns and runs away.

	But in an instant, the male brings its head down, knocking
	Ludlow to the ground.  Then it raises its head again.
	Watching.  Waiting.

	Ludlow gets up again and tries to run, but now the female rex
	strikes, knocking him over again.

	Ludlow tries to crawl away, on all fours.  The male bends down
	and closes its jaws around one of his legs, holding it
	tightly.  Ludlow SCREAMS --

	-- and the rex bits down decisively.  The bone breaks with a
	dry SNAP.  Ludlow HOWLS in pain, unable to move, and the baby
	toddles forward eagerly.  Ludlow can only stare as it leaps
	up, onto his chest, and opens its jaws wide.

	Peter Ludlow SCREAMS.

							CUT TO:

	EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

	Snow falls in a gray midwinter sky.  In a cemetery, a group of
	fifty MOURNERS is grouped around a gravesite next to a coffin
	that is festooned with cascades of flowers.  On a table, there
	is an array of framed photographs --

	-- of JOHN HAMMOND.  A MINISTER reads from the Bible while the
	Mourners wipe away tears.  IAN MALCOLM stands a respectful
	distance from the group, KELLY right beside him.  Malcolm's
	face is blank, tired, his sunburn out of place with the white
	winter setting around him.

	At gravesite, a Young Woman turns, looking back over her
	shoulder.  About sixteen, she's lovely, with long blonde hair
	and an honest, open face.  She notices Malcolm, recognizes
	him.

	She nudges a Young Man next to her, about thirteen years old.
	The Young Man turns and breaks into a smile just as welcoming.

	As the ceremony breaks up, they walk over to him.

				MALCOLM
		Hello, Lex.  Tim.

	LEX stands on her tiptoes and kisses Malcolm on the cheek.
	TIM extends a hand and Malcolm shakes it.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		This is Kelly.  My daughter.

	They nod their hellos.

				LEX
		I'm glad you came, Dr. Malcolm

				MALCOLM
		I'm sorry about your grandfather.

				TIM
		Thank you.

				LEX
		We were going to call you, in a few
		days.  Tim and I have been thinking,
		and we've decided we want people to
		know about the island.  About what we
		all saw.

				TIM
		We think it's something our
		grandfather would want us to do.

				MALCOLM
			(pause)
		Why?

				LEX
		Because it's true.

	Malcolm looks at her for a long moment.

				MALCOLM
		I know, Lex.  But even if we're the
		only ones who ever know, it'll still
		be true.  You see, I've decided
		that if the world found out about
		what your grandfather created, it
		wouldn't be around for very long.

				LEX
		But -- it was real.  You can't let
		people go on saying it's not.

				MALCOLM
		That's the thing about reality.

	He looks down at Kelly.

				MALCOLM (cont'd)
		Even when people stop believing in
		it, it doesn't go away.

	Kelly smiles and takes his hand, her slender fingers
	interlocking with his.

	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

	Back on Isla Sorna, we float over the deserted worker village,
	moving lightly, as in a dream.

				MALCOLM (V.O.)
		Do you feel the cold wind blowing on
		your face?  That's real.

	We sweep low, landing on the roof the helicopter took off
	from, the nest below now careful rebuilt with straw and
	scrap, a dozen unblemished eggs in the middle of it.

				MALCOLM (V.O.)
		Do you see the four of us, standing
		here together, alive?  That's real.

	A PTERANODON land gently on the nest.  Ever so carefully, it
	positions itself over the eggs, lowers itself to roosting
	position, and folds its giant wings around its body.

				MALCOLM (V.O.)
		And maybe that's still that matters.

	The animal raises its head, opens its beak, and SQUAWKS
	approvingly up at the heavens.

				   FADE OUT

					JURASSIC PARK III


Written by

Peter Buchman


revisions by

Alexander Payne, Jim Taylor and John August 











1 	EXT. PACIFIC OCEAN – DAY	1

	A speedboat cuts swiftly through the ocean swells beneath the
	looming cliffs of ISLA SORNA.


2 	EXT. BOAT - DAY 							2

	Illegal Costa Rican parasail operator ENRIQUE CARDOSO helps
	Americans BEN HILDEBRAND and twelve-year-old ERIC KIRVY --
	already wearing life-vests -- strap themselves into a two-
	person PARASAIL HARNESS.


3 	EXT. BOAT - DAY 							3

	Ben and Eric clamber onto a makeshift PLATFORM that hangs over
	the back of the board. Dangling from Ben's neck is a CAMCORDER.

				BEN
		You make sure to get us as close as you can,
		okay? If it's a good trip, I'll give you a 
		little extra. 

				ENRIQUE
		Don't worry. I take you close. But not too 
		close.
			(rubbing Eric's head)
		You don't want them to eat you.

	Enrique heads toward the driver's seat and a large SECOND-HAND
	WINCH bolted to the deck.

				ENRIQUE (CONT'D)
		Ready, amigos?

	Ben and Eric nod excitedly and give the thumbs up. Ben lifts the
	camcorder to the record the action.

	Enrique jams the down the throttle down, and with a loud RAOR, the
	speedboat shoots forward. Soon the boat is whipping across the 
	rolling ocean.

	Strapped together, Ben and Eric lean back over the passing
	water, intently watching for Enrique's signal.

	As the boat picks up speed, Enrique eyes the speedometer.

	Ben grabs the end of the RIPCORD attached to the harness. He and
	Eric braces themselves.

	Enrique finally signals with a pulling motion. He pulls
	the winch, Ben yanks the cord and - 

	WOOOSH! A brightly colored PARASAIL blossoms behind the boat,
	hoisting Ben and Eric aloft. In a big BLOCK LETTERS on the
	parasail is stitched "DINO-SOAR."

	THE TOWNLINE unsold rapidly from its enormous reel.

	BEN AND ERIC climb higher and higher.

	ENRIQUE keeps an eye on the clients. When they reach a certain 
	height, he LOCKS OFF the reel.

	High overhead, Ben and Eric are floating in wonderful, quiet
	splendor. The motor of the boat now sounds strangely distant.

	Down below, the boat enters a think blanket of FOG.

	Eric points excitedly at the islands as Ben films him with the
	camera.

	Then, a sudden TUG on the thing line cause Ben to drop the camera,
	which now dangles from his neck.

				ERIC
		What was that?

	A second tug...and now the faintest of screams.

	Ben and Eric look down to find that the boat has disappeared
	into the low bank of FOG.

	By the time the boat emerges on the far side of the mist...THEIR
	IS NO SIGN OF ENRIQUE. The deck is splattered with blood.

	As Ben considers the driverless boat...

				ERIC (CONT'D)
		Ben!

	Ben glances over at Eric, staring in horror at something 
	below. Following his gaze, Ben finds that their boat is only
	moments away from crashing into A LARGE REEF.

	Sticking out of the water, the imposing reef is being battered
	by waves.

	AS THE BOAT SMASHES INTO THE REEF, it splinters into a
	number of pieces.

	A panicked Ben turns to Eric.

				BEN
		Unclip your line!

	Eric and Ben frantically unclip their lines. Catching an
	updraft, the parasailers float upward.

	A strong wind sends them wafting over the daunting cliffs
	of ISLA SORNA...


4 	EXT. SUBURBAN BACKYARD - DAY 					4

	TWO PLASTIC DINOSAURS enter the frame and do battle accompanied
	by a child's ferocious sounds.

				CHILD (O.S.)

		RRRRROW! GRRRRRR!

	WINDER TO REVEAL -

	CHARLIE, a three-year old boy, plays in a sandbox with his
	favorite toy dinosaurs. ALAN GRANT squats next to him and
	watches with great delight.

	ELLIE SATLER stands over them, an INFANT in her arms -- a
	picture of the perfect family.

				GRANT
		Oh, actually, Charlie, those two are
		herbivores. They wouldn't be interested in
		fighting each other. But these...
			(picking up two other dinosaurs)
		See, these are carnivores. And this one here
		-- see its claws -- this one here uses its
		claws to gouge at the throat of its opponent…

	As Grant demonstrates with some GRUNT and GROANS of his
	own, he only succeeds in frightening the boy.

				ELLIE
			(interrupting)
		Uh, Alan?


				GRANT
		Hmm?

				ELLIE
		He's three. Why don't you wait till he's a
		little older?


				GRANT
		Oh, right.
			(back to Charlie)
		Happy dinosaurs.

	He bounces them along the sandbox edge.

	Then, the sound of a CAR ENGINE turning off and a door
	SLAMMING is heard.

				ELLIE
		That must be Mark.
			(calling out)
		Mark, we’re back here!

	Ellie and Grant turn to see --

MARK DEGLER coming through the gate carrying a briefcase. He's their age, handsome but not annoyingly so, with a friendly,
	balance demeanor.

	He and Ellie kiss tenderly on the lips.

				ELLIE (CONT'D)
		Good day?

				MARK
		Keeping the world safe.
			(re: baby)
		Here, let me take her.

	Ellie hands off the baby.

				ELLIE
		Mark, this is Alan Grant.

				MARK
		Nice to meet you, Alan. I've heard a lot about
		you.

	The two men shake hands, and we now realize it is Grant
	who is the stranger in this household. Little Charlie runs to
	his father, showing his dinosaur.

				CHARLIE
		Daddy, this is a herbabore.

	Grant smiles uncomfortably, a third wheel.


5 	INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT 					5

	WINDEN to a PARROT in a large cage. Grant is teasing 
the bird with a cookie, holding a it just out of reach.

				GRANT
		What's my name? Come on, Jack, say it. Is my
		name Alan? Say my name.

		The bird doesn't respond.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		He used to know me.

				ELLIE
		Sorry, Alan it's been six years.

	Grant shrugs, gives Jack the cookie, and heads towards the table.
	The three adults are finishing their dessert and coffee. The
	The children have been out to bed.

	An awkward moment of silence. Uncomfortable smiles. Then --

				MARK
		More coffee?

				ELLIE
			(relived)
		Yes. Great.

	Mark stands and collects their cups.

				ELLIE (CONT'D)
		So, Mark's working at the State Department
		now.

				GRANT
		Really? 
(To Mark)
What do you do there?

				MARK
			(with mock bravado)
		I could tell you about it, but than I'd have to
		kill you.

				GRANT
		Indeed.

	Mark smiles, nodding. Then he goes into the kitchen. Another
	uncomfortable silence.

				ELLIE
	So what are you working on now?

				GRANT

	We have a new site in Montana. At least until
	the money runs out.

				ELLIE
		Anything good?

				GRANT
		Raptors, mostly.

				ELLIE
		My favorite.

	Grant leans forward, realizing Ellie's one of the few people he
	can talk to about this.

				GRANT
		You remember the sounds they made?

				ELLIE
		I try not to.

				GRANT
		We've done cranial scans, and raptors
		actually had a quite sophisticated
		resonating chamber. I have a theory that
		their ability to vocalize is the key to their
		social intelligence. The way they can work
		together as a team.

				ELLIE
		You think they could talk to each other?

				GRANT
		To a degree we never imagined.

	And from the cage in the corner of the room...

				JACK
		Bullshit!

	Both look back at the parrot. ELLIE smiles.

				ELLIE
		You taught him that.


6 	EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - NIGHT 					6

	Ellie and Grant head toward the rental car parked in the
	driveway.

				ELLIE
		Good luck with the fund raising.

				GRANT
		It was never easy, but before Jurassic Park,
		you could find money. Somewhere. Now fossils
		are out. Everyone wants to see a real live
		dinosaur.

				ELLIE
		Times change Alan. But you're the still the
		best. I mean that.

				GRANT
		The last of my breed.

	A long moment passes between them as both consider where
	they've ended up.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		I'd better get going.

				ELLIE
		Let me know if I can help, Alan. You’re bad
		about asking for help, but please ask me.
		Anything, anytime.

				GRANT
			(deep down knowing he never
			 will)
		Okay. Goodbye, Ellie.

				ELLIE
		Goodbye, Alan.

	Not sure what the right thing to do is, they finally end up with
	a friendly hug. They keep it short.

	Grant gets in his car. Starts the ENGINE.

	He's about to pull off when Ellie knocks on the window. He rolls
	it down.

				ELLIE (CONT'D)
		When I met you, I thought that one day
		millions of years ago, all the dinosaurs
		became extinct. Wiped out. But you told me
		otherwise. When conditions changed,
		dinosaurs changed. They became other things.
		They evolved.

				GRANT
		A well-accepted theory.

				ELLIE
			(simply)
		Alan don't be afraid to evolve.

	Grant hears her, but Ellie knows it didn't really get through.
	A forced half-smile, than Grant waves goodbye.

	Ellie watches as he drives off.


7 	INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY 						7

	The last stop on Grant's fund-raising tour, it's a public
	lecture hosted by some foundation. There are SCIENTISTS and
	STUDENTS here, but also a lot of DINO-FANS, some even with
	costumes.

	Grant finishes his speech to what was a full house -- some
	ATTENDEES are grabbing their coats and sneaking out. This
	wasn't the exciting guest speaker they were all expecting.

	A new slide comes up. Just black and white, and indecipherable.

				GRANT
		It's through the painstaking study of the
		Interior chamber in multiple specimens that
		we can determine this exciting correlation
		between the larynx and the upper plate. That
		lets us theorize -- theorize, mind you -- that
		the raptor might have been capable of bird-
		like vocalizations. Which as you can
		imagine, would be a tremendous breakthrough.

	He's finished, but no one seems to notice at first. Then the
	SYMPOSTUM LEADER stands up, leading a smattering round of
	APPLAUSE.

				SYMPOSTIUM LEADER
		Thank you very much Dr. Grant. Now does
		anyone have a question?

	Nearly every hand goes up. Grant doesn't seem surprised.

				GRANT
		Does anyone have a question that doesn't 
		relate to Jurassic Park?

	Quite a few hands go down.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		Or the incident in San Diego, which I'll
		remind you, I did not witness.

	Now most of the hands are down. Picking one of the few
	remaining...

				MALE STUDENT
		Your theory on raptors is good and all, but
		isn't all this conjecture kind of moot?

	The STUDENT'S BUDDY nods in agreement.

				MALE STUDENT (CONT'D)
		I mean, once the U.N. and Costa Rica and
		everyone decides how to handle the second
		island, scientist will just go in and look
		for themselves.

				TOO-CLEVER SCIENCE REPORTER
		Isn't paleontology itself in danger of
		extinction?

	Recognizing those as fighting words, the symposium leader is
	about to step in. But Grant will take this himself.

				GRANT
		No, and let me be perfectly clear on this
		point. Dinosaurs lived 65 million years ago.
		What's left of them is fossilized in stone
		the actual scientists spend years to
		undercover.
								   (MORE)

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		what John Hammond and InGen created are
		theme park monsters. Nothing more, nothing
		less.

		The class clearly disagrees with his assessment.

				ANOTHER STUDENT
		You're saying you wouldn't want to study
		them if you had the chance?

				GRANT
		No force on this earth or in heaven could get me on
		that island.


8 	INT. DERELICT COCKPIT - DAY 					8

	Looking through the cracked windshield of a junkyard plane, we
	see someone spray painting red circles on the outside of the
	glass.


9 	EXT. AIRCRAFT GRAVEYARD - DAY 					9

	NASH, a wry, intelligent mercenary pilot and soldier, is
	painting huge eyes the windows of a wrecked plane. Finished, he
	tosses the paint can through the open windows and walks quickly
	away from the plane.

	We now see that RED TEETH are painted on the craft's nose. It
	looks absurdly like some angry beast.

	We are one the edge of a dry lake bed, part of an aircraft
	graveyard. Wrecked planes lie all around.

	We hear a phone RINGING...


10 	INT. CARGO PLANE - DAY 					       10

	A RINGING satellite phone rests on a stack of gun cases.

	UDESKY, the leader of this crew, answers it. 

				UDESKY
		Udesky.
			(beat)
		Yes sir. we're good to go. I'll lock it down as
		soon as you drop me the payment.

	With the phone still to his ear, Udesky wanders out of the
	craft...


11 	EXT. CARGO PLANE - DAY 					       11

	Udesky looks over at Nash and COOPER, another mercenary.

	Cooper's the quiet muscle of the bunch, a weapons specialist. He
	finishes loading a massive gun, essentially a hand-cannon. It's
	aimed at Nash's grimacing aircraft.

				UDESKY
		That's right, two of the very best I could
		find. No, I haven't worked with them
		personally, but they come with the highest
		recommendations.

	Then --

	Cooper FIRES at the grimacing aircraft. A projectile rockets
	into the plane and EXPLODES with a fireball.

	Nash and Cooper exchange a satisfied smile.

				UDESKY (CONT'D)
		You've got nothing to worry about, sir. This
		is going to be a piece of cake.

	Pieces of the demolished craft come raining down.


12 	EXT. EXCAVATION BASE CAMP, PT. PECK LAKE, MT - DAY 	12

	CLOSE ON a man's hand, carefully scraping the stone away from a
	dinosaur fossil. We follow his hand back as he wipes off his
	sweaty brow, revealing him to be BILLY BRENNAN, 25, an
	associate professor and site manager. He's a charmer.

	Looking past him, we see CHERYL, 21, a junior at junior of State. She's one
	of a dozen COLLEGE STUDENTS working at the site, and the one
	most smitten with her supervisor.

				CHERYL
		Billy? I don't think I'm doing this right.

	He scoots over, lying down beside her. Checks her work.

				BILLY
		You need to go slowly. See, just take it little
		at a time.

	She's not listening, just watching his eyelashes.

				CHERYL
		I can never tell what's bone and what's rock.

				BILLY
		Technically, it's all rock. The calcium in the
		bones is replaced during fossilization. But
		you can feel the difference. See? Rough,
		smooth. Rough, smooth.

	He runs her bare fingers over the two different patches, showing
	her. After a pause, she runs her finger along his
	stubbly chin...

				CHERYL
		Rough.

	...and along his lips.

				CHERYL (cont'd)
		Smooth.

	Billy may not have started this flirtation, but he's not ending
	it either. It's then that a

	SHADOW

	falls across them. Billy looks up to see...

				BILLY
		Dr. Grant!

	Grant has just returned, a bag over his shoulder.

				GRANT
		Mr. Brennan.

										CUT TO:


12A	EXT. WALKING TO THE MAIN TENTS - DAY 			12A

	Billy takes one of Grant's bags, talking as they go.

				BILLY
		How was your trip? Profitable?

				GRANT
		We'll be broke in four weeks.

				BILLY
		Three weeks. I had to rent some equipment.

	The cross into one of the tents, which only has two "walls". On
	a dust-taped table, a dusty Macintosh is feeing data into a
	strange machine the size of a dorm refrigerator. A mechanical arm sweeps
	back and forth across a tray of fine sand.

				GRANT
		You rented an automated litter box.

				BILLY
		It's a rapid prototyper. I feed in the scan
		data from the raptor skull, than the computer
		breaks it into thousands of slices which this
		thing prints, one layer on top of the other.
		It's the future of paleontology.

				GRANT
		Not if it can't dig.

	The arm stops and suddenly the tray of sand shakes, dropping
	through holes in the bottom to reveal an object the size of 
	a person's fist.

				BILLY
		I give you a raptor's resonating chamber.

	Grant hates technology, but he can't help but be amazed by the
	result. He lifts the strange object up, shaking out the
	remaining sand.

	Billy puts it to his lips and blows through it like a conch shell.
	The resulting SOUND is unique and piercing, the cry of an 
	non-existent animal. Grant is speechless with excitement. And so he
	uses it again and again, producing different SOUNDS and
	variations.

	In the distance, flocks of birds rise to the sky and fly off.

	Billy looks up to see a MAN and a WOMAN getting out of 	
	a Cadillac. Cheryl is pointing them in the direction of the 		
	tent. 									

				BILLY (cont'd) 				
			(falsely casual) 					
		Oh, I forgot to tell you. Some visitors 			
		wanted to come by and talk	to you. I 
told them you'd be happy to see them. 
		maybe even have dinner with them. 						

				GRANT 					
		Absolutely not. 						

				BILLY 						
		They're here. 							

				GRANT 					
		What? 								

	Only now does Grant realize these two people
Who were walking up to them.
Putting on a friendly smile, Billy goes up to them.				

				MAN 						
		Dr. Grant? 							

				GRANT 					
		Yes? 								

				MAN 						
			(extending his hand)					
		Paul Kirby. Kirby Enterprises				 	
			(reaching into his pocket) 	
		My card. 							

	PAUL KIRBY is a talkative optimist with				
	no "off" switch. His wife AMANDA KIRBY, just
as friendly, is harder to read. There seems to be			
	exhaustion behind her eyes. 					

				GRANT 					
		What can I do for you, Mr. Kirby? 				

				PAUL 						
		Well sir, I am a great admirer
of yours, and I have an extremely interesting 
proposition to discuss. Would you let my wife 
and I take you to have dinner tonight? Our treat.					

				GRANT 					
		You know, I've been traveling and I'm very 		
		tired. Maybe some other time. 				

				PAUL
		I guarantee it'll be worth your while.

	Behind Kirby, Bill furtively rubs his thumb and fingers
	together, indicating the guy is loaded.

	Grant musters a weak smile.

				GRANT
		It's be my pleasure.


13 	INT. HELL CREEK BAR AND GRILL, JORDAN, MT - NIGHT 	13

	They’re only halfway through the entree, but Grant is ready to
	bolt. It's only Billy who's keeping him from being rude. They walk
	over to Paul and Amanda’s table and sit down.

				PAUL
		First off let me say as a dinosaur enthusiasts,
		Amanda and I have admired your work for
		years.

				AMANDA
		It is truly, what’s the word? Inspiring.

				GRANT
		Thank you.

	It's everything Grant can do just to be polite. He desperately
	wants to leave and get back to his dig.

				PAUL
		Amanda and I, well, we just love the outdoors.
		Heck we've been on pretty much any adventure
		tour they can come up with: Galapagos, K2,
		the Nile...

				AMANDA
		We even have two seats reserved aboard the
		first commercial moon flight.

	Billy nudges Grant.

				GRANT
		Hmmm.

				PAUL
		Now, for our wedding anniversary this year
		we wanted to do something really special,
		something...

	He places his hand on his wife's.

				AMANDA
		...once-in-a-lifetime.

				PAUL
		We've arranged for a private airplane to
		take us flying over Isla Sorna. And we want
		you to be our guide.

	The Kirby's look to Grant as if they've offered him an amazing
	gift. But Grant just sighs and smooths the tablecloth.

				GRANT
		That's a very nice offer, Mr. Kirby, but I'm
		afraid I'm much to busy. If you like I can
		refer you to a number of highly qualified...

				PAUL
		No, no, see Dr. Grant, you're the best. You've
		seen these animals in the flesh. No one else
		has come close to you.

				GRANT
		I'm flattered, but I've taken this little
		adventure tour. And with the air
		restrictions they've imposed after the
		incident in San Diego, you can’t fly low
		enough to see anything of interest.

	Paul is momentarily stymied, but Amanda rallies.

				AMANDA
		You see, that's just the thing. Paul and I
		have special permission to fly low.

				BILLY
		How low?

				PAUL
		Well, I'm no aviation specialist. But I do
		know it's hell of a lot lower than anyone
		else.

				AMANDA
		From what I understand, it's pretty much
		whatever we want.

				GRANT
		That's hard to believe.

				PAUL
		Let's just say that through my business --
		imports/exports, emerging markets -- I've
		made some friends in high places. In this
		case, the Costa Rican government.

				AMANDA
		Dr. Grant, you don't know how important it is
		for us to have you come along. It would make
		all the difference.

	Grant is trying to find another way to say no, when Paul pulls
	out his checkbook.

				PUAL
		And of course, we're prepared to make a
		sizeable contribution to your research here.

	Billy looks at Grant. Don't say no.

				PAUL (cont'd)
		I can write all kinds of numbers on this
		check. Just tell me what exactly it would
		take.

	We HOLD ON a conflicted Dr. Alan Grant.

		  		  CUT TO:

14 	EXT. SKY - DAY 							14

	NNNNNRRRRRRNNNNNRRRRR...

	A SMALL AIRPLANE - a Beechcraft Kingair 200 Turboprop, to be
	exact - cruises through clear blue skies.


15 	INT. PLANE - DAY 							15

	Grant re-settles, trying to get comfortable. Billy is across
	from him, finishing cleaning his camera lenses before putting
	them back in the ragged case.

				GRANT
		Even with what I pay you, you could get a
		better bag.

				BILLY
		No way. This is lucky. Couple years ago
		some buddies and I went hang gliding off
		these cliffs in New Zealand. Updraft sent me
		right into the side. BOOM!

				GRANT
		That does sound lucky.

				BILLY
		It was this strap alone that saved my life.
		Got caught on a rock as I was falling.

				GRANT
		Reverse-Darwinism. Survival of the most
		idiotic.

	Because he hasn't really said it...

				BILLY
		Listen Alan, I really appreciate you
		bringing me along.

				GRANT
		The bones will be there when we get back.
		That's the nice thing about them. They never
		run away.
			(beat)
		And besides, you got me into this. I don't
		intend to be alone with these people.

	ON PAUL AND AMANDA

	sitting near the front of the plane. Paul draws a long, nervous
	breath and looks at Amanda. She seems just as tense.

	Finally finding a comfortable position, Grant puts his hat over
	his eyes, ready to take a nap.

	Done with his camera, Billy turns to someone just off screen.

				BILLY
		So how do you know the Kirby's?

	and we reveal...

	Mercenary Cooper, the weapons specialist we met earlier. He's
	wearing sunglasses so dark you can't tell whether he's staring
	at you or fast asleep.

	He doesn't answer. Did he even hear? And then --

				COOPER
		Through our church.

				BILLY
		What Religion?

				COOPER
		Uh…the one that worships God and believes in being
		Good. 



16 	EXT. SKY - DAY 							16

	The plane continues onward.


17 	INT. PLANE - DAY / HOURS LATER 					17

	Grant slowly wakes in his chair, groggy. All the other
	passengers are fast asleep. Then Grant turns to his right.

	A RAPTOR

	sits besides him. The dinosaur eyes him curiously, then opens
	his mouth...

				RAPTOR
		Alan.

	And than it STRIKES.


18 	INT. PLANE - DAY 					       		18

	Grant wakes up with a start, disoriented. Billy is leaning over
	him.

				BILLY
	Alan. We're almost there.

	The adrenaline still surging through him, Grant turns and looks

	THROUGH THE WINDOW.

	Clouds obscure the view, than parts reveal

	ISLA SORNA

	rising majestically out of the water.


19 	EXT. SKY - COUNTINUOUS DAY 					19

	We watch the plane descend sharply to the island.


20 	INT. PLANE - COUNTINUOUS DAY 					20

	In various combinations, Grant and Billy, Paul and Amanda look
	out the windows at the amazingly green island.

	Cooper looks out through a window of his own.


21 	INT. COCKPIT - COUNTINUOUS DAY 				21

	Here we find the rest of the crew from the junkyard. Nash is
	piloting.

	A VOICE comes over their radio headsets.

				RADIO VOICE
			(Spanish accent)
		Unidentified aircraft approaching Isla
		Sorna, this is San Juan approach. You are
		flying in restricted airspace. Immediately
		turn to the coordinates two-zero-zero. I repeat
		redirect to...

	A look from Nash then Udesky switches off the radio.


22 	EXT. PLANE - COUNTINUOUS DAY 				       22

	The plane now descends to a mere hundred feet above the
	treetops.


23 	INT. PLANE - CONTINUOUS DAY 				       23

	Paul puts his hand atop Amanda's as they stare intently out the
	window.

	Billy looks to Grant.

				BILLY

		Admit it. You're excited.

	Grant will admit nothing.

	Calling back from the cockpit...

				UDESKY
		Cooper! Yell up if you see anything!

				COOPER
			(yelling back)
		No, I thought I'd keep it to myself.

	Suddenly Grant spots...

				GRANT
		There. There! An Apatosaur. Look at the
		coloration.

EXT. ISLA SORNA – GRASSY FIELD – CONTINUOUS DAY

	An Apatosaur is grazing on the grass.

INT.  PLANE – CONTINUOUS DAY

				BILLY
			(amazed)
		I'm so use to seeing bones. It's weird to see
		skin.

				GRANT
		Mr. and Mrs. Kirby! If you look out the right
		you can see...

	But Paul just waves him away with a hand, staring intently out
	his window. We HOLD ON Grant a moment, thinking that odd.


24 	INT. COCKPIT - CONTINUOUS DAY 				       24

	Udesky puts down his binoculars.

				UDESKY
		South shore is clear. The rest is rock.

				NASH
		Are we on?

				UDESKY
		We're on.


25 	INT. MAIN CABIN - CONTINUOUS DAY  			       25

	Looking out the window, Grant notices they're flying awfully
	low. Just then, he hears a MECHANICAL HUM and a LOW RUSH from
	outside. Now wanting to believe --

				GRANT
		That's not the landing gear?

	Paul, Amanda and Cooper don't respond.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		What you're...
			(realizing)
		You can't land.

	Paul turns back to him.

				PAUL
		Dr. Grant if you'd just sit tight, we'll
		explain this all in a jiffy.

				GRANT
		This plane can not land!

				AMANDA
		It's going to be all right. Just...

	Grant is out of his seat, heading for the cockpit. He'll wrestle
	the controls if he has to.

	Cooper grabs him, pulling him back. Grant starts to struggle,
	but he's certainly no match. A well-practiced fist hits him
	dead on.

	CUT TO BLACK.


26 	OVER THE DARKNESS 						26

	we hear Amanda's voice, strangely distant but amplified.

				AMANDA
		Eric! Eric! Are you there honey? Ben!
		Erriccc!

	Her calls continue as we FADE UP to...


27 	INT. PLANE - DAY 							27

	GRANT'S P.O.V. -- blurry and disorientated. He finds himself lying
	on the floor of the plane.

	Seeing him come to, Billy helps him slowly get up. Grant's head
	is pounding.

				GRANT
		Tell me we didn't land.

	By his expression, we see Billy would have to lie.

				BILLY
		I think they're looking for someone.


28 	EXT. LANDING STRIP, ISLA SORNA - DAY 			       28

	The jungle has almost reclaimed this patchy vine-covered
	runway. The airplane is parked at one end.

	Nash, Udesky, and Cooper are checking their weapons.

	Amanda is at the edge of the tarmac calling into the jungle on a
	BULLHORN.

	Billy and a groggy Grant emerge from the airplane. Paul trots
	over.

				PAUL
		Dr. Grant, are you alright? I'm sorry we
		had to be so...

	The three mercenaries are now walking into the jungle with
	their guns.

				GRANT
		What the hell is going on? What are they
		doing?

				PAUL
		Establishing a perimeter. Making it safe.
		These guys are really good. One of them was a
		Green...

				GRANT
		Mr. Kirby, trust me, on this island, there is
		no such thing as safe. We have to get back in
		this plane...

	Grant looks to Amanda, who shouts through a bull horn.

				AMANDA
			(on-bullhorn)
		ERRR-IIIC!

				GRANT
		And tell your wife to stop making so
		much noise! We're food to these damn 
animals.

				PAUL
			(yelling)
		Amanda, Honey! Dr. Grant says it's a bad
		idea!

				AMANDA
			(on the bullhorn)
		What?

				PAUL
			(pointing broadly at Alan)
		He says it's a bad idea!

				AMANDA
			(on the bullhorn)
		What's a bad idea?

	As in on cue, there is a DEAFENING ROAR from the jungle.

	Everyone turns toward the sound and freezes.

				PAUL
			(to Alan)
		What was that?

	Grant doesn't answer, still listening to the reverberations. 
Then a couple shots are heard.

				BILLY
			(low)
		Is it a rex?

				GRANT
		I don't think so.

	Billy and Paul breathe a small sign of relief.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Sounds bigger.

	Nash and Udesky come RUNNING out of the jungle, headed for
	the plane.

				UDESKY
		We gotta go, now!

				PAUL
		What's the problem? Can't you guys...?

	As Udesky and Nash sprint past Paul in interrupted by a
	second, closer, DEAFENING ROAR. He pales.


29 	INT. PLANE - CONTINUOUS - DAY 				       29

	Udesky waits by the door, hustling everyone inside. Nash
	hurries into the cockpit. Everyone scrambles to a seat. Amanda
	climbs next to Paul.

				AMANDA
		We can't just...

				PAUL
		Don't worry, honey. We'll circle around and
		come back.

	Udesky closes the door.

				BILLY
		What about the other guy?

				UDESKY
		Coop's a professional. He can handle himself.

	A blood-curdling SCREAM echoes through the jungle followed by
	MACHINE GUN FIRE.

				NASH
			(yelling back)
		We're going!

	Udesky climbs into the copilot's seat, and Nash revs the engine.


30	EXT. RUNAWAY - DAY						30

	The plane starts down the runway.


31	INT. PLANE - DAY							31

	The passengers bounce in their seats as the plane picks up
	speed down the overgrown strip.


32	EXT. RUNWAY - DAY							32

	Suddenly, two hundred yards ahead of the plane,

	COOPER

	emerges from the jungle. He stands in the middle of the runway.
	waving one arm wildly. His second, badly injured arm hangs
	limp by his side.

				COOPER
		Come on, Nash. Slow down, buddy.


33	INT. THE COCKPIT - DAY					       33

	Nash spots Cooper, shoots a glance at the airspeed indicator.

				NASH
		Coop, you know I can't do it pal.

	He slams down full throttle in an attempt to reach flying speed.

	Seeing that Nash has no intention of stopping, Paul shouts from
	the cabin.

				PAUL
		What are you doing? That's Mr. Cooper!


34	EXT. RUNWAY - CONTINUOUS - DAY				34

	We are looking down on Cooper from behind. As the plane
	approaches,

	A SHADOW

	falls over the injured mercenary. Then with brutal speed, an
	ENORMOUS BEAST seizes him in its massive jaws and lifts him
	into the air.

	From this angle we get only a glimpse of a long crocodilian
	snout, powerful clawed forearms and spiny sail rising from the
	creature's back.


35	INT. THE COCKPIT - CONTINUOUS - DAY			       35

	All eyes are on the creature as it devours Cooper. Amanda turns
	away in horror.

				AMANDA
		Oh, my God! Paul, my God!


36	INT. THE COCKPIT - CONTINUOUS - DAY			       36

	Looking through the windshield, we see the creature is directly
	in the path of the plane.

	Nash pulls back on the stick. The plane rises.

	The left propeller clips the flank of the enormous
	dinosaur, SNAPPING the blade.

	Blood sprays the windshield and side windows.


37	EXT. RUNWAY - CONTINUOUS - DAY 				37

	The turboprop banks into the jungle, out of control.


38	INT. PLANE - CONTINUOUS - DAY 					38

	The passengers are thrown about as the craft CRASHES through
	trees, tearing off a wing and pieces of the tail.

	Finally coming to rest in the jungle canopy, the plane settles
	in the trees.

	SILENCE.

	The passengers slowly recover and have a look around. Foliage
	blocks most windows, making it impossible to see out.

				BILLY
		Is anyone hurt?

	Checking themselves, everyone seems pretty much intact.

	Still thinking of himself as in charge...

				UDESKY
		Quiet! We're okay. Let's everybody just stay
		put.

	He attempts to turn on the cockpit radio, but it's dead.

				NASH
		Who's got the sat-phone?

				PAUL
		Right here!

	Paul hands the bulky phone up to Nash, who dials out.

	Grant unstraps himself, climbs to the back to the side door and shoves.
	The door opens a few inches before hitting a branch.

	He looks out the and lets out a quiet gasp as the ground reels

	THIRTY FEET BELOW.

	He quickly shuts and latches the door.

	CLOSE ON the sat-phone. pressed against Nash's ear.

				RECORDED VOICE
		We're sorry. All circuits are busy. Please
		try your call again later...

				NASH
		Shit!

				PAUL
		What is it? What's the matter?

	Amanda SCREAMS.

	A huge reptilian face appears in the cockpit window. Everyone
	else SCREAMS now.
	
	The plane LURCHES - and we hear a deep GROWL.
	
	The passengers hold tight, paralyzed. Nash buckles himself into
	his seat.

	Suddenly, the plane is YANKED from the side to side. Battered this
	way and that, the terrified passengers tightly grip their 
	seats.
	
	Finally, the horrible sounds of WRENCHING METAL as the nose of
	the plane is RIPPED RIGHT OFF.

	Nash and Udesky are suddenly sitting in open air. The nose of
	the plane is tilting downwards, the jungle floor far below.

	The passengers hang almost vertically in their seats,

	Debris tumbles out the open end of the plane, some of it
	striking Nash in the head.

	Udesky unbuckles his seat belt and climbs back up into the
	cabin. Nash follows.

	Suddenly, a long snout with dagger-like teeth pushes past the
	cockpit seats, opens wide, and

	CLAMPS DOWN

	on Nash's legs.

	The pilot CRIES OUT in agony. The others passengers grab onto
	his arms, trying to pull him back. But it's no use. The dinosaur
	rips Nash out of their grasp and down the aisle.

	Nash desperately grabs on to the seat cushion, then watches in
	horror as the fabric RIPS AWAY. He's pulled out of the plane and 
	dropped to the ground. A giant foot steps in the way as the snout
	of the creature reaches down and quickly devourers the screaming
pilot.

	It's horrifying sight, but no one can turn away.

	Pleased with the appetizer, the creature comes back for the
	main course.

	Grant tries to force open the jammed rear door. Billy tries to
	help, but the door won't budge.

	The dinosaur JAMS its snout into the fuselage and lunges for
	Amanda in the first row. She yanks her legs back as the jaws
	SNAP SHUT.

	Behind Amanda, Billy reaches forward, UNSNAPS her seat belt
	and pulls her into the next row back.

	The others unstrap their belts and crowd into the rear of the
	passenger compartment.

	The shift in weight sends the fuselage tipping backwards.


39	EXT. JUNGLE - CONTINUOUS - DAY				       39

 	The plane breaks free of the tree limbs and DROPS tail-first to
	the jungle floor.

	It SLAMS hard, then flips over onto its roof.


40	INT. PLANE - CONTINUOUS - DAY				       40

	The passengers are prowled on the ceiling of the plane, dazed
	by the impact. Everyone is cut and bruised.

	Out of the open cockpit, they see two approaching dino feet.

	A window near Amanda fogs over with condensation. when it
	clears, she finds herself looking right into enormous eyes.

	Then all hell breaks loose as the plane is SLAMMED across the
	jungle clearing.

	The passengers are hammered against the walls of the plane,
	tumbling like socks in a dryer. Debris, seats and luggage fly
	everywhere.


41	EXT. JUNGLE FLOOR - CONTINUOUS - DAY			41

	The plane comes to an abrupt halt as it SMASHES into a tree.

	A gargantuan FOOT steps on the fuselage and FLATTENS it like a 
	paper tube.


42	INT. PLANE - CONTINUOUS - DAY					42

	Inside, windows EXPLODE, raining glass over the passengers. As
	the walls compress, Udesky becomes trapped in the rear of the 
	plane, the others in front.

				BILLY
		Over here!

	Udesky dives into the narrowing gap, and Billy pulls him the
	rest of the way through.

	Billy is as terrified as the rest of them, but he thrives under
	this rush of adrenaline.
	
	Then a huge CLAW digs into the skin of the fuselage and begins
	to slowly PEEL the plane open. Grant looks up in dread at the
	widening tear.

				GRANT
		This way!

	Grant leads the group out the open end of the cockpit. They
	make a mad dash for the jungle.

	A tremendous ROAR causes Billy to look behind him. He can't
	help but steal a glimpse of this terrifying, but utterly
	fascinating, animal.

	Grant yanks him forward.


43	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY						       43

	With Grant in the lead, and Udesky taking up the rear, the group
	tears through the jungle.

	Concealed by the dense undergrowth, the unseen dinosaur bears
	down on them -- mowing down the young trees which TOPPLE all
	around them.

	Grant spots a grove of

	HEAVIER TREES

	and leads the group into it.

	The dinosaur cannot fit between the trunks. It ROARS at
	the fleeing humans, searching desperately for a route after
	them.

	The group continues their relentless pace, putting as much 
	distance as they can between themselves and the beast. Paul
	Kirby looks like he's about to have a heart attack. Even Billy
	is gasping for air.

	They stop, thinking they've outrun it.

	Grant directs the group through some underbrush and into --


44	EXT. CLEARING - CONTINUOUS - DAY				44

	Our friends stop dead in their tracks. Amanda stifles a cry.

	Before them lies an immense unmoving SAUROPOD.

				GRANT
		Don't worry. It's dead.

	Then a full-grown bull

	TYRANNOSAURUS

	rises up behind the carcass. It was feeding, its mouth mottled
	with blood and carrion.

	Grant FREEZES.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Nobody move a muscle.

	Remember: the T-Rex tracks motion.

	Obeying, the group FREEZES for a few long beats. Then Udesky
	takes off running.

	And T-Rex ROARS.

	Everyone runs. T-Rex is right behind them.


45	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY							45

	Dashing back the way they came, the group suddenly comes face
	to face with --

	THE FIRST MONSTER.

	We now get our first full unobstructed view of the gigantic
	creature, SPINOSAURUS AEGYPTICUS. Over forty feet long and
	twenty-five feet high, the dinosaur has a bony sail along its
	back. Its head is crocodilian with rows of long, curving teeth.
	Sinewy six foot arms terminate in three fingers hands with
	fourteen inch claws.

	Nowhere else to run, the group scatters into the brush as the
	two behemoth predators rush forward, their ROARS thunderous.

	Paul and Amanda scramble into one direction, Billy and Udesky in
	the other. But Grant can't go anywhere - his foot is stuck 
	between two branches.

	He manages to free himself as the two dinosaurs approach.
	They'll have to deal with each other before eating the humans.

	Grant dives down between two fallen trees as the Spinosaurus and T-
	Rex circle one another like gladiators, each searching for the
	other's weakness.

	Laying flat on his back, Grant lets out a terrified GASP as the
	giant foot of Spinosaurus lands across the two trunks mere
	inches from his face.

	Spinosaurus lunges forward, powerful jaw open wide.

	T-Rex sidesteps the assault, its tail knocking down small
	trees as it spins out of the way.

	In the tress, Paul and Amanda scurry again for cover.

	Between the fallen trunks, Grant attempts to get away on his
	hands and knees.

	T-Rex presses the attack, slamming its tail into the flank of
	its adversary. Spinosaurus is knocked back, and Grant is again
	forced to duck for cover.

	As Spinosaurus struggles to regain its balance, T-Rex dives
	forward. Spinosaurus is driven backwards as T-Rex tries to
	grip its throat.

	Amanda yanks Paul out of their path. They Scramble over to
	Billy.

	Now on its side, Spinosaurus fights back ferociously. It slashes
	at T-Rex with its long arms and razor sharp claws, then finally
	kicks the animal with one mammoth foot.

	Tyrannosaurus staggers back, wounded.

	Down below, Grant is splashed by the blood pouring from the
	dinosaur, as he slowly makes his way towards his fellow humans.

	Spinosaurus lunges for the T-rex with gaping jaws and manages to
	topple T-Rex off its feet and sends the falling dinosaur to the
	ground.

	With an earth-shuttering CRASH, the dinosaur lands between
	Grant and the rest of the group.

	The companions scurry out of the way, but as they do so, the
	head of the T-Rex now lands almost directly on top of them.

	Plastered against an immense tree, the group watches in horror
	as T-Rex starts to rise but is thrown back down as Spinosaurus
	latches onto its throat.

	Spinosaurus crushes the life out of its adversary, and T-Rex
	opens and closes its jaw a mere inches from our terrified 
	friends.

	Finally, Grant reaches the others.

				GRANT
		Come on!

	Spinosaurus lets out a victorious HOWL, and the blood-drenched
	professor leads the group through the undergrowth.


46	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY							46

	Winded from running, Paul is caught off-guard as a furious
	Grant slams his back against a tree. Only one thing he wants to
	know --

				GRANT
		Why did you bring us here?

	Paul is too startled to speak. Udesky tires to step in, but
	Grant gives him back a look.

				AMANDA
		Our son is on this island. We need your help
		to find him.

	Still crunched against the tree, Paul pulls out a photo from his
	shirt pocket.

				PAUL
		This is him. Eric. He’s thirteen now. He's
		just about the greatest kid in the world.

	Letting go of Paul, Grant takes the photo, a Sears-style
	portrait of the boy we saw Parasailing at the beginning. He
	shakes his head, disbelieving. He hands the photo to Billy.

	The group splits into two sides -- Paul and Amanda, Grant and
	Billy -- with Udesky stuck between. Dialogue overlaps in
	places.

				AMANDA
		He's with a man named Ben Hildebrand.

				BILLY
		Who's that?

				PAUL
		Her new boyfriend.

				AMANDA
		A friend. We were vacationing. Eric wanted
		to see the island and the dinosaurs, so Ben
		found a guy who would take them parasailing.
		They never came back.

				PAUL
		We called everyone, did everything we could.
		Because of all the controversy over this
		island, no one will step in. Costa Rica says
		it's a no-fly zone, it's their own damn fault.
		Guys at the U.S Embassy -- our U.S. Embassy --
		said we should "accept the inevitable." You
		believe that?

				GRANT
		So you hired these mercenaries.

				UDESKY
		We prefer "recovery specialists." We do
		overseas custody issues and...

				GRANT
			(interrupting)
		Then you duped us into coming here.

				PAUL
		We needed somebody who knew the lay of the
		land. Somebody who'd been to this island before.

				GRANT
			(disbelieving)
		I have never been on this island!

				PAUL
		Sure you have. You wrote that book...

				BILLY
		That was Isla Nublar. This is Isla Sorna.
		The second island.

				PAUL
			(low, to Udesky)
		I didn't know, there were two islands.

				AMANDA
		Still, you have survived the dinosaurs before. You
		saved those kids.

				GRANT
		A few of us survived. A lot more died. And we
		were better prepared and better armed.
			(finally)
		How many days have they been missing?

	A look between Amanda and Paul.

				PAUL
		Eight weeks.

	Grand and Billy are speechless. It might as well be eight years.

				GRANT
		After what you've seen today, you really
		think your son could be alive?

				AMANDA
		He's smart, Dr. Grant. And he knows so much
		about dinosaurs.

	Before anyone else can talk, Grant puts his hand out. He wants
	everyone to shut up while he plans their next move.

				GRANT
		No, I'm sorry, but no. We'll savage what we
		can from the plane. Then we head for the
		coast. There may be a boat left, something to
		get us off this island.

				PAUL
		Dr. Grant, we're not leaving without our son.

				GRANT
		You can stick with us, or you can go and look for
		him. Either way you're probably not getting
		out of here alive.

	With that he leaves, A beat later, Billy follows. He has
	genuine sympathy for the Kirby's, but he's logical enough to
	know Grant is right.

	BACK WITH PAUL AND AMANDA

	They look to Udesky.

				PAUL
		What do we do?

	Udesky is clearly at a loss, but for everyone's reassurance he
	tries to mutter some brio.

				UDESKY
		Well, I think we should start searching for your
son. In the direction they're going.

				PAUL
		Excellent.

	They follow after Grant and Billy.


47	EXT. PLANE CRASH SITE						47

	The five survivors search through the wreckage, trying to find
	anything useful. The task is grim. Mindful of Grant's 
	warnings, they move quickly and quietly.

	Udesky picks up a gun out of the swampy water. The barrel is bent
	almost 90 degrees, unless.

	Billy finds his camera, intact.

	Digging a change of clothes out of his suitcase, Paul steps
	around the side of the plane to change. He's in his underwear
	before he notices Amanda is also there changing.

				PAUL
		Sorry.

				AMANDA
		Nothing you haven't seen before.

	A beat. Amanda looks over as they get dressed.

				AMANDA (CONT'D)
		How much weight have you lost?

				PAUL
		Twenty, twenty-fire pounds. I've been
		swimming at the Y.

				AMANDA
		You hate to swim.

				PAUL
		People change.

	A nod to mean, that's the truth.

				PAUL (CONT'D)
		You look good.

				AMANDA
		So do you.

	They make brief eye contact, which Amanda breaks.

	Around the side, Billy is taking photos of a giant footprint the
	dinosaur left in the mud during its attack on the plane. Grant
	looks over.

				GRANT
		How would you classify it?

				BILLY
		Obviously a superpredator.
			(best guess)
		Suchimimus. that snout.

				GRANT
		They never got that big.

				BILLY
		Baryonyx?

				GRANT
		Not with that sail.
			(Billy gives up)
		Spinosaurus Aegypticus.

				BILLY
		I don't remember that on InGen's list.

				GRANT
		That's because it wasn't on their list. Who
		knows what else they were up to?

	Billy looks past Grant to see Paul approaching. He's struggling
	with the straps on his backpack. turning in circles.

	Billy regards him with suspicion.

				BILLY
		So Mr. Kirby, tell me, when you climbed K2,
		did you base camp at 25- or 30,000 feet?

				PAUL
		Thirty-thousand, I think. Closer to the top.

				BILLY
		About a thousand feet above it, actually.
			(closer)
		Most mountain-climbers remember how tall
		that mountains were.

	Paul knows he's caught.

				GRANT
		There is no Kirby Enterprises, is there?

				PAUL
		There is. I own a place called Kirby Paint
		and Title Plus. We're out in the Westgate
		Shopping Center in Enid, Oklahoma. The
		"plus" is for bathroom fixtures, fireplaces
		accessories, patio furniture. Stuff like 
		that.

				BILLY
		I don't suppose that check you wrote us is
		any good.

				UDESKY
		He paid us half up front. Cash.

				PAUL
		Mortgaged everything we had to do it. Even
		the store. and if we make it off this island
		with my son, I swear, I'll make good on the
		money I owe you. I don't care if it takes me
		the rest of my life.

	Grant and Udesky exchange a dubious glance.

				UDESKY
		However long that is.


48	EXT. JUNGLE PATH - DAY						48

	Amanda, Paul, Billy, Udesky and Grant walk through the jungle.

				AMANDA
		Eric!

				GRANT
		Quiet!

				PAUL
			(loud whisper to Amanda)
		Stop that. Dr. Grant says this is dangerous
		territory.

				AMANDA
		Well we should split up or something. We can
		cover twice the area.

				PAUL
		No, Dr. Grant says...

				AMANDA
		Dr. Grant says this, Dr. Grant says that...

				PAUL
		Well what's the use of hiring an expert if
		your not going to listen to him?

				AMANDA
		Because "Dr. Grant" isn't looking for Eric.
		Dr. Grant is looking for the coast.

				PAUL
		Fine...and when the Tricyclatops comes after
		you, don't come crying to me.

				AMANDA
		Oh, don't worry about that.

				PAUL
		What?

				AMANDA
		Nothing.

				PAUL
		What did you say?

				AMANDA
		Nothing.

				PAUL
		What did you say!

				AMANDA
		Just drop it Paul!

	The Kirby's conversation trails off into the jungle. Udesky
	moves up next to Grant and Billy.

				UDESKY
		If they split up, I'm going with you.

	And as they continue forward, Billy spots something in the
	trees ahead.


49	EXT. JUNGLE CLEARING - DAY					49

	A parasail chute is caught in the branches of a tree. A yellow
	life vest hangs limply from a branch.

	Paul rushes over, unsnags it, and examines the label.

				PAUL
		Young adult.

				AMANDA
		Eric...

				UDESKY (O.S)
		Hey. Got something here.

	All turn to see Udesky holding up a camcorder encased in a
	waterproof shell.

				AMANDA
		That's Ben's!

	She grabs it from Udesky and pops open the housing. She tries
	the power switch on the camcorder, but the battery's dead.

	Udesky pull out a flashlight from his pack and looks to Amanda.

				UDESKY
		Here, give that to me.

	And as Udesky fiddles with the flashlight, Grant and Billy
	consider the parasail.

				BILLY
		It looks intact.

				GRANT
		We should take it with us to signal any planes.

				UDESKY (O.S)
		I think I've got it.

	Udesky has rigged the wires on the flashlight so that the
	batteries can be used to power the camcorder.

	He brings a live wire to back of the camcorder. A red power
	light comes on.

				AMANDA
		It works!

				UDESKY
		I don't know for how long.

	Udesky swings the tiny screen out and pushes play. The others
	crowd around.

	ON THE SCREEEN

	Eric and Ben play frisbee on the beach.

				PAUL (O.S.)
			(excited)
		That's him. That’s Eric!

				AMANDA (O.S.)
		I filmed this the morning they left.

	Ben catches the frisbee, checks his watch and motions to Eric.

	Eric runs over, and Ben puts his arm around him as they run to
	the camera.

	Paul reacts to this image but holds his tongue.

	THE VIDEO SCREEN -

	The image now CUTS to a shot from aboard Enrique's boat
	speeding towards ISLA SORNA -- the start of the movie. Eric
	points excitedly at the island and smiles at the camera.

	We replay the opening moments of the movie from Ben and Eric's
	perspective, soaring high until...

				ERIC
		Ben!

				BEN
		Unclip the line!

	THE JUNGLE -

	A PAN from face to face of all watching this tape with a
	mixture of hope and nausea.

	ON SCREEN -

	Angle again with Ben's legs in the foreground. Falling fast.

				BEN (CONT'D)
		Hand on! Hang on buddy!

	Now the camera penetrates the jungle canopy and the picture
	and sound become complete chaos: SCREAMS from the both,
	branches BREAKING, flashes of Ben and Eric's frightened faces
	as the camera is buffeted in all directions.

	With a lurch the terrifying descent in finally over, and the
	jungle floor is just ten feet away, swaying back and forth
	beneath Ben and Eric's feet.

				BEN (CONT'D)
		Are you ok, buddy?

	There's GURGLING to his voice. Ben may be more hurt than he's
	letting on.

				ERIC
			(through his sobs)
		I don't know. I think so.

				BEN
		We're okay. It's going to be okay. Here, get
		ready. I'm going to unhook you.

	The sound of PUMPLING is followed by the sight of Eric DROPPING		
	into the frame, landing on the ground rolling. He stands and
	looks back up at Ben.

				ERIC
		I'm all right

				BEN (O.S)
			(weaker)
		We're going to get out of this, pal.

	And on that, the power and picture fade away.

	BACK ON PAUL AND AMANDA - overjoyed.

				PAUL
		See? He's okay. He's alive! Everything's
		going to be all right now.

	Amanda brings a hand to her mouth, silently nodding her head.

	Grant and Billy exchange a dubious look, than begin pulling the
	parasail out of the tree. As they do so, the sail gets caught on
	a branch.

	They pull harder. The branch bends, but the sail won't come
	loose. One last tug and than, SNAP. The branch breaks, the chute
	falls away to reveal…

	A SKELETON.

	It swings down directly at Amanda. She SCREAMS.

	Finally, the others are able to pull her away. As they untangle
	the lines, the men are able to get the first view of the remains
	of Ben Hillenbrand, still caught in his harness.

	Amanda's knees buckle. Regaining her balance, she runs off into
	the jungle.

	Paul quickly follows.

				PAUL (CONT'D)
		Amanda!


50	EXT. THICKNESS - DAY						50

	Reeling, Amanda comes to a stop in an area with thick
	undergrowth. It's danger here, very still and quiet.

	She tries to calm herself, but each effort to suppress just
	makes her more emotional. She's surprised as Paul wraps an arm
	around her to comfort her. But she doesn't fight it.

				PAUL
		I'm sorry Amanda. I am. And I'm sorry for
		the things I said about him.

				AMANDA
		No, it's...

				PAUL
		I know you liked Ben. I had no right to...

				AMANDA
			(frustrated)
		It’s not about him. It's Eric. He's alone out
		here somewhere. Our baby is all alone.

	Saying it aloud, the reality sinks in for both of them

				AMANDA (CONT'D)
		I guess I was hoping that with Ben around,
		there'd be someone to keep him safe.

	Checking in on clients, Udesky stops at the edge of the
	thicket. Something raises the hairs on the back of his neck.

				UDESKY
		Dr. Grant!

	He nods for the others to take a look at this. They head over,
	Grant at the rear.

	As he approaches, Billy is packing up the rest of the chute in a
	backpack. He stops short from what he sees.

	Looking down, we CIRCLE across the jungle floor. Here we find a
	strange, hollowed-out construction made of sod and branches.
	Maybe six feet around.

	Just now noticing the others' stare, Paul looks down into one
	of the bowls at his feet, a half-buried nest. It's filled with
	football-sized eggs, laid in a spiral.

	And this isn't the only nest. Amanda counts twelve in all, laid
	out in an oddly symmetrical pattern.

	The last to arrive, Grant identifies the species in a horrified
	instant.

				GRANT
		Raptors.

And as he says the words, off in the distance, we hear
	the cry of some herbivores, around by the chorus of
	snarls.


							SMASH CUT TO:

51	EXT. FUTHER IN THE FOREST - DAY				51

	The party blasts through the forest, trying to keep up with
	Grant. They haven't even had time to ask --

				AMANDA
			(to Paul)
		What’s a raptor?

	Paul has no idea.

				UDESKY
		They don't look that big. I mean,
		comparatively.

				GRANT
		If we came across one, we might live.

				PAUL
		Well that's good.

				GRANT
		But you never came across just one.

	From the back --

				AMANDA
		Wait! Where's Billy?

	They all stop. The only one not there is --

				Grant
		Billy! Billy!

				AMANDA
			(almost sotto)
		I thought we weren't suppose to yell.

				BILLY (O.S)
		Here!

	He comes in from the left. Excited, he explains to Grant --

				BILLY (CONT'D)
		I got some great pictures of the nest. You
		know this proves raptors raised their young
		in colonies.

	Furious with his student. Grant just keeps moving. There's no
	time to stand around and argue.

				BILLY (CONT'D)
		This speaks to a larger social structure, the
		possibility of Darwinian altruism. It
		changes everything.

	A beat. Trying not to sound presumptuous --

				BILLY (CONT'D)
		We could co-write a paper.

				GRANT
		Ah yes, the first rule of academics. Publish
		or perish.


52	SCENE PREVIOUSLY OMITTED					52


53	EXT. RIDGE - DAY (HOURS LATER)					53

	Much fatigued, the five now mach upward towards a crest.

	Panting and flushed, they reach the top of the ridge and gaze
	into the distance.

	A jungle valley stretches before them. Not far off in A VAST
	COMPOUND - comprised of several buildings. One building alone
	seems to cover several acres.

	The weary group breathes a sigh of relief.

				PAUL
		I bet there's a very good chance Eric's in
		there. I'd bet my bottom dollar.

	Udesky and Grant share dubious looks and continue down into
	the valley.


54	EXT. INGEN COMPOUND - DAY					54

	The group emerges from the jungles and enters the compound.
	They walk through an overgrown parking lot, littered with
	abandoned vehicles. Some are lying on their side. Others are
	overturned completely.

	They're not going to be driving anywhere.

	A troubled Grant peers through a windshield, partially caved
	in, like some giant head butted the glass. (Think back to Lost 
World)

	And the group finally approaches the front doors of an
	enormous building. As they head up the front steps, we see
	something in the distance behind them:

	CAT-LIKE MOVEMENTS

	on the high ridge. To fast to see what it was. But too ominous
	to dismiss.


55	INT. BUILDING LOBBY - DAY					55

	Our friends now find themselves in a sparse, one quietly
	opulent corporate lobby now in the process of being reclaimed
	by the jungle/ Roots and ivy poke through the floor and walls.

	In the waiting area, the cushions of a sofas and chairs have been
	gnawed at and pulled apart. Dusty coffee mugs and filled
	ashtrays lie on the table. The water has turned brackish in a
	near by cooler.

	Sudden FLAPPING. We look up and see BIRDS nesting in the
	rafters. It is an eerie, haunted place.

				PAUL
			(calling out)
		Eric! Are you here?

				AMANDA
		Eric!

	All listen for a response. Nothing. Paul and Amanda exchange a
	despondent look.

	Sitting on the reception counter is an official-looking
	telephone. Everyone has the same thought, but no one dares.
	Finally -

				AMANDA (CONT'D)
		What the hell.

	Amanda puts the receiver to her ear. Nada.

	With Grant in the lead, they head deeper into the building.

	Unseen by the group, a fleeting SHADOW flits across the lobby's
	dirty windows with terrifying speed.


56	INT. CORRIDOR - DAY						56

	A couple vending machines stand at the one end of this long
	hallway covered with vines.

	Paul notices them and pulls change from his pocket.

				PAUL
		Let's see. I've got about a dollar seventy-
		five. How about you guys?

	Billy SMASHES IN the window of one machine with his boot.
	Picking through the glass, he pulls out some candy bars and
	chips. He checks the expiration date. 	


	CONTINUED:								56

				BILLY
		Thank God for preservatives.

	He tosses the food to the others.

	Paul now turns to his own vending machine and SMASHES it with
	his heal. The glass refuses to break.


57	INT. HATCHING LABORATORY					57

	Grant and Billy push through a set of doors to see
	
	A CAVERNOUS HATCHING FACILITY

	filled with much of the same equipment we recognized from the
	first island, although the sheer size of this place dwarfs any
	of the facilities seen previously.

	As the group walks down the ramp and onto the floor, they begin to
	absorb the incredible array of technology: enormous cryonic
	freezer, their plug pulled years ago; empty incubators; tanks
	of formaldehyde with dinosaur fetuses and body parts.

	Machines with intricate tubing and wing arms stand beside
	conveyer belts cris crossing the room at different levels.

				AMANDA
		This is how you make dinosaurs?

				GRANT
		This is how you play God.

	Billy looks around the lab. He can't help but be impressed.

				BILLY
		Okay if I take pictures?

	Grant nods.

	Billy sets his lucky camera back down on the worktable. Two years
	from now, astute observers of the DVD will not that Billy
	doesn't actually take his camera from the bag; he was carrying
	it because there wasn't any room inside.

	Billy pulls a new roll of film from the bag and zips it shut.

	ACROSS THE LAB

	Amanda is passing a large cylindrical tanks with half-formed
	embryos floating in formaldehyde -- genetic experiments gone
	awry. Finally she reaches

	A GIGANTIC MANIFIED RAPTOR HEAD

	floating in the one tank.

	Something about this specimen catches Amanda’s attention. She
	bends forward, getting very close to the glass. She peers right
	into the eyes of the nightmarish creature. Then --

	AN ACTUAL RAPTOR

	lunges at her form behind the tank. She SCREAMS.

	Fortunately the raptor can't get between the closely spaced
	tanks. Amanda runs.

				PAUL
		Amanda!

				GRANT
		Back out! Move!

	And as the group races through the lab the Raptors find a
	larger gap between the tanks.


58	INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS - DAY				58

	Paul leads the way, checking the door for possible escape
	routes or hiding places. Twenty feet behind,

	THE RAPTOR

	rounds a corner, bolting after them. Paul ducks in the closest
	door.

				PAUL
		In here!


59	INT. DINO KENNEL - CONTINUOUS - DAY				59

	The group slams the door behind them and quickly takes in the
	room.

	There are several rows of oversized steel cages, apparently
	used for containing young dinosaurs. Many of the cage doors are
	standing open.

	The group races down a lone aisle. Close behind, the raptor
	BURSTS into the room, ROARS.

	As the Raptor gains ground, Udesky and Billy run into one of the
	open cages, SLAMMING the door behind them.

	Grant, Paul and Amanda duck into another. Before they can
	swing the cage door shut behind them, however, the raptor SLAMS
	into it, driving the door into the cage.

	They are forced back against a chain-like wall, trapped in a
	small triangle space by the advancing door. The angry
	Raptor is now inches away through the cage door.

	Then, suddenly, the raptor looks up. We follow its gaze. The top
	of their triangular enclose is wide open.

	The eager raptor climbs up the chain-like door. Catching the
	tail of an idea, Amanda grabs the door and nods to the others.

				AMANDA
		Push!

	They push hard on the cage door, swinging it and the raptor
	right through the opening of the cage.

	Now the raptor is trapped in a small triangular space, the door
	going right to the ceiling.

	Amanda slides the door's bolt through the chain like wall,
	temporarily trapping the dinosaur.

	The raptor struggles desperately, GRAWLING AND SNARLING, but
	the cage door seems to be holding.

	As everyone rushes back to the door.

	The raptor begins to make a LOW, HAUNTING MOAN.

	As the others head for the door, Grant lingers a step, listening
	to the beast's simple melodic cry. It has the same tones as
	came from the model resonating chamber.

				GRANT
		She's calling for help.


60	EXT. COMPOUND - DAY						60

	The group exits the rear of the lab building and finds itself in
	a large equipment yard. The CALL of the raptor is still audible
	as they head for the tree line.

	Now they moan is ANSWERED from distant jungle quarters.

	The responses quickly MULTIPLY. To the group's dismay, they
	soon find themselves virtually SURROUNDED by raptor CRIES both
	distant and near.

	Grant looks around with amazement. It's vindication of his
	theory on raptor communication, but it couldn't come at a worse
	time.

	Responding to the growls, a herd of grazing HADROSAURS suddenly
	flees across the open space. Then, in the distance behind the
	herd

	A PACK OF RAPTORS

	emerges from the jungles, coming their way.

				GRANT
		Head for the trees!

	From the lab building, the raptor we left imprisoned now BURSTS
	out one of the doors and HOWLS to the pack -- the same cry we
	heard in the lab.

	The raptor pack moves into the hunting formation. One ALPHA-MALE
	RAPTOR. slightly larger than the others, leads the charge up the
	middle.

	Grant risks a looks back. But doesn't stop running.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		THIS WAY!

	In an effort to escape the oncoming raptors, Grant leads the
	group right into the stampeding heard of hadrosaurs.

	Suddenly, all is chaos. Hadrosaurs race past, splitting up the
	group.

	Letting the others get ahead of him, Grant looks back. Much to
	his dismay, the raptors are ignoring the hadrosaurs.

	Indeed, the pack weaves its way through the herd -- the raptors
	only want them.

	In the chaos of the stampede, everyone loses sight of each other.

	Up ahead, Billy trips and falls. As he rolls the strap on his
	camera bag breaks. He doesn't notice it's missing until he's
	already back on his feet and running.

	Amanda and Paul keep close to each other. Further back, Grant
	spots Billy's fallen camera back. He grabs it as he runs past.

	Looking back, Billy sees that Grant now has his back...

				BILLY
		ALAN!

				GRANT
		KEEP GOING!

	They lose sight of each other in the rush.


61-19	OMIT									61-69


69A	EXT. EDGE OF THE JUNGLE - DAY					69A

	As the hadrosaurs WHIP PAST, Paul and Amanda climb up into a
	tree. A raptor leaps at Paul, barely missing his leg.

	Trying to pull Paul up, Amanda nearly loses her balance. This
	time, Paul catchers her.

	Billy climbs up a nearby tree of his own in sight of Paul and Amanda.

	Udesky has nearly reached a tree of his own when he finds
	himself

	HEADED OFF

	by a raptor. He turns to the other way, but finds

	THERE ARE MORE RAPTORS.

	He picks up a fallen branch as these dinosaurs cautiously
	approach. Not more than a few feet away, the leader of the trio
	stops, peering at him.

	Udesky swings hard, but the dinosaurs feints. From behind him,
	another raptor slashes at the back of his legs, severing his
	muscles. Udesky CRIES OUT and drops to the ground.

	IN THE TREETOPS

	Paul, Amanda and Billy can hear him.

				PAUL
		Udesky.

				AMANDA
			(Listening)
		He's this way.

	From here, the thick branches overlap, forming a kind of
	"second floor" above the ground. It's not easy, but you can move
	from branch to branch, tree to tree.

	ON THE FLOOR

	Unable to walk, Udesky attempts to crawl away from the animals.
	The effort clearly causes him great pain. Strangely, the
	raptors suddenly don't seem interested in him anymore.

	Rather, they're "talking" among themselves. Udesky is amazed to
	find him self still alive.

	Suddenly, one of the raptors SLASHES at him again. But it's
	delicately not a mortal blow, just a very painful one. Udesky
	CRIES OUT, louder this time.

	IN THE TREES

	Hearing the new cry, Paul, Amanda and Billy move faster, now
	finally seeing Udesky on the ground. He's face-down, barely
	moving but still MOANING.

	The raptors are gone.

	In the lead, Amanda starts to climb down. But Paul grabs her,
	holds her back.

				PAUL
		It's not safe.

				AMANDA
		We have to help him.

				BILLY
		He's right. A predator wouldn't leave a kill
		wounded.

				AMANDA
		He's not a kill, he's still alive.

	She breaks from Paul's grip and drops to the ground. She's only
	a foot away from the tree when

	ALL FOUR RAPTORS

	lead out from their hiding places. They almost catch her as
	Billy and Paul pull her back up on the limb

	The raptors stare up at them, angry their plan didn't work.

				PAUL
		They couldn’t climb up, so they were trying
		to get us to come down.

				BILLY
		They set a trap
			(amazed)
		They actually set a trap.

	Bored with waiting, the raptors go back to finish off Udesky,
	making a meal out of it. Up in the branches, the survivors are
	horrified and sickened.

	Then, from the deep in the forest, a new RAPTOR CRY. The feasting
	raptors look up, listening, then suddenly run off into the dark
	jungle.

				PAUL
		Where's Grant?


69B	EXT. ELSEWHERE IN THE JUNGLE - DAY				69B

	Climbing higher in a tree, Grant is just feet above a growing
	pack of raptors. He scales one branch, the next, finally
	reaching a perch that the dinosaurs can't jump to.

	LOOKING DOWN

	The entire pack is now standing still, watching him. In the
	center, the Alpha Male lets out a sort of BARK. Responding to the
	cry, the other raptors CALL BACK.

	As terrified as he is, he can't help but be fascinated by their
	communication. Like a hellish bird song, there's a rhythm to it,
	a structure. They're clearly talking about something.

	Under his breath, Grant is able to mimic its patterns.

				GRANT
		What does that mean? What are you saying?

	Of course they can't answer. They just keep using the same
	"phrase."

	Ready to ditch Billy's camera bag in order to climb higher --
	he's had to hold it by the strap -- Grant finds his hand covered
	with a runny slime. He looks down at the camera bag, and that's
	the source. It's oozing out the bottom.

	He unzips the bag to find

	A BROKEN RAPTOR EGG

	inside, the white and green yolk still dripping from the pieces
	of the shell. There's another intact egg beside it.

	This is what the raptors where chasing.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		God damn you, Billy.

	Ever the scientist, Dr. Grant tests a theory even in the face of
	danger: he holds up the intact egg so that the raptors can see it.
	They suddenly go crazy, howling the same phrase but LOUDER.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		It means, "Give us the egg," doesn't it? "We
		want the egg."

	He gently drops the bag to the ground. Although the raptors are
	interested, pulling out the unbroken egg, they're still by no means
	placated. The song may have changed, but they still want Grant
	dead.

	They begin to jump at him, eventually, hopping up on each
	other’s backs. It's only a matter of time till they reach him.

	Grant moves to climb higher, but sees no branches he can reach.
	And than he hears the low CREAKING. A CRACK. The branch he's
	on is starting to give in.

	He looks down at the face of his enemies, knowing he'll be
	their next meal. And then,

	A SMALL CANISTER

	lands at the base of the trees, immediately SPRAYING out a thick
	cloud of oily fog. It's the first of

	FIVE CANISTERS

	that land in the area, creating a thick cloud. It's not just
	smoke though something far more caustic.

	As it hits the raptors they immediately recoil, those closest
	to the canisters SHRIEKING in pain. Tumbling in the dirt.
	There may be a pheremonal element to the mist as well -- they
	seem panicked, disoriented.

	Pack mentality takes over, and after the first ten raptors take
	off running, so do the rest, some tripping over their feet
	blindly.

	This may be dino-tear gas, but it's not good for humans either.
	Up in the tree, Grant's eyes immediately burn from the vapor
	He squints to see through the fog, where he spots

	A HUMAN SHAPE

	at the edge of the smoke

				VOICE
		Come on! They'll be back!

	Grant half-climbs, half-falls out of the tree, rushing to get
	through the heaviest of the smoke.

	A SMALL DIRTY HAND

	grabs his, pulling him along.


69C	EXT. JUNGLE - LATE DAY						69C

	Eyes swollen from the gas. Grant stumbles, barely able to see as
	the other person pulls him along. It's only now we can identify
	his rescuer as

	ERIC KIRBY,

	the boy he was brought to rescue. A lot has changed in the last
	eight weeks. It's not just dirt and muck -- he's the filthiest
	child you've ever seen -- something primal has come out in him.

	Something wild.


69D	EXT. INGEN COMPOUND - TWILIGHT				69D

	On the far side of the tipped over vehicle, Eric pulls open a
	hatch -- his hiding place. The door opens part way.

	Eric motions for Grant to follow.


69E	INT. INSIDE THE BUNKER - TWILIGHT				69E

	Squeezing in sideways -- it's very tight fit -- Grant finds
	himself in a space no bigger than the inside of a Datsun. lit by
	a small battery-powered lantern. This is where Eric has been
	hiding.

	The minute Grant's inside, Eric goes back to work re-sealing
	the door. This 13-year old boy has become astonishingly
	efficient at staying alive.

				GRANT
		Eric...

	The boy holds up a hand. He listens for a moment. He doesn't
	hear anything outside.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Eric, your parents are both here.

				ERIC
		In Costa Rica?

				GRANT
		On the island.

	Eric truly can't believe it. He hoped to be rescued but...

				ERIC
		They'll never make it. I mean, they can't
		manage when the cable goes out.

				GRANT
		You'd be surprised what people can do when
		they have too.

	Eric studies his guest, finally certain he recognizes him.

				ERIC
		You're Alan Grant, aren't you?
			(off surprised reaction)
		I read both of your books.

				GRANT
		Which one do you prefer?

				ERIC
		The first one. Before you where on the island.
		You liked dinosaurs back then.

				GRANT
		Back then, they hadn't tried to eat me.

	Grant takes a better look around Eric's tiny hideaway,
	impressed with what he's been able to scavenge. Among the many
	items we see another smoke canister, some battery-powered
	lanterns and lots of candy wrappers. This kid's been living on
	chocolate for weeks.

				ERIC
		When InGen cleared out, they left a lot of
		stuff behind.

				GRANT
		Any weapons, radios?

	Eric pulls up a long cattle prod to show Grant.

				ERIC
		Found this, but the battery's dead.

				GRANT
		It's a wonder you aren't. I'm amazed, Eric. I 
		barely lasted 30 hours. You lasted eight
		weeks.

	The line catches Eric strangely. It's the first moment of true
	emotion we've seen him in.

				ERIC
		Is that all it's been? I thought it was longer.

				GRANT
			(trying to be positive)
		The important thing is we both made it.
		That's something we have in common.

	Eric rips into a candy bar. After a moment, he realizes he
	should offer one to his guest as well.

	Grant takes it. A lone beat. Than, Grant just has to know...

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Did you read Malcolm's book?

				ERIC
		Yeah.

				GRANT
		What did you think?

				ERIC
		I dunno. I mean, it was kind of preachy.
		Chaos-this, chaos-that. And like, to me, the
		guy seemed kind of high on himself.

	Grant smiles.

				GRANT
		That's two things we have in common.


69F	EXT. TREETOPS - NIGHT						69F

	The trio is where we left them, perched up in the branches.
	They're far from safe, but nothing's after them for a
	while.

	In Billy's eyes, we can see a storm of guilt raging. But he
	hasn't said anything. Won't say anything.

				AMANDA
		We can't just stop looking. Eric and Dr.
		Grant are out there somewhere.

				PAUL
		I want to find them too, but we can't do a bit
		of good right now. For every scary thing we
		saw in the daylight, I'll bet there ten times
		more of 'em at night.
			(to Billy)
		Am I right?

				BILLY
		I don’t know.

				PAUL
		I thought you were an expert.

				BILLY
		Dr. Grant was.

				AMANDA
		Well Dr. Grant isn't here, so we're going to
		have to figure out what to do ourselves.

	Amanda is impressed by her own determinations. A long beat.

				AMANDA (cont'd)
		So what do we do?

	No one has the faintest clue.


69G	EXT. DEEP IN THE FOREST - NIGHT					69G

	VARIOUS SHOTS; The creatures of Isla Sorna walk past in the
	shadows, some looking up at the light in the trees.

	Suddenly, one of the creatures is attacked by another. We hear
	ROLLING, SNARLING, HISSING, just seeing the outline of the
	fight. Just as fast as it began, the fight is over, the winner
	snakes on the loser.


69H	EXT. TREETOPS - NIGHT (LATER)					69H

	Everyone's moved to different branches, trying to settle in for
	the night. Paul keeps looking over to the tearful Amanda, about
	to say something. He finally does.

				PAUL
		I just want you know, Amanda. It's not
		your fault what happened.

	Amanda looks over, not sure what his absolution.

				PAUL (cont'd)
		Eric has always been headstrong, and you
		throw Ben Hildebrand into the mix and well...

				AMANDA
		Well what?

				PAUL
		Well damn it. I don't speak ill of the dead.
		What I'm trying to say is, it’s was just a crazy
		accident. The exact same thing could have
		happened if he was with me. You can't go
		beating yourself up about it.

	Realizing he's trying his best, Amanda can’t stay angry with
	him.

				AMANDA
		This wouldn't happen if he was with
		you. I mean, you drive five miles below the
		speed limit. I totaled three cars in fives
		years.

				PAUL
		That one time was just the bumper.

				AMANDA
		He would have been, safe. Completely,
		entirely, suffocatingly safe.
			(beat)
		I would have him to see more of the world than
		Enid, Oklahoma. I wanted to see more of the
		world than Enid, Oklahoma. And so yes, it's
		my fault that this happened. I'm sorry that
		you have to be here.

	Really looking at her...

				PAUL
		I'm not sorry at all.


69I	EXT. INGEN COMPOUND - DAY					69I

	Morning on Isla Sorna. A low mist hangs tight to the forest
	floor as Eric seals up his hideaway for hopefully the last time.

	They start walking. Eric pulls something out of his pocket,
	shows it off to Grant.

				ERIC
		Know what this is?

				GRANT
			(takes it)
		A raptor claw. I use to have one. A fossil.

				ERIC
		Mine's new.

	Grant hands it back.

	Eric is becoming more and more a normal thirteen-year old boy.
	There's an innocence to him that's coming back.

				GRANT
		How much of this island have you explored?

				ERIC
		I stayed pretty close to the compound,
		Figured if anyone came to look for me, that's
		where they'd start.

				GRANT
		We need to head for the coast.

				ERIC
		Are you sure?

				GRANT
		Why?

				ERIC
		Closer you get to the water, the bigger
		things get.


69J	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY							69J

	Billy and Amanda wait for Paul as he comes out of the bushes,
	hiking up his shorts.

	Trying to take charge...

				BILLY
		We need to stick to the plan. Head for the
		coast.

				AMANDA
		What about Eric and Dr. Grant?

				BILLY
		Going to the coast was Alan's idea. If he's
		alive, that’s where he's headed.

				AMANDA
		What about Eric?

	Billy represses his instinct to say Eric's dead.

				PAUL
			(rationalizing)
		He's probably has a better chance by the coast
		as it is. Figures that all the big dinosaurs
		would live in the center of the island.
			(to Billy)
		Right?

				BILLY
		Sure.


69K	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY							69K

	As Grant and Eric walk, both stop, hearing a strange sound. But
	for a change, it's not an ominous one.

	It's a human one.

	A phone is RINGING, very faintly. Without a word to each other,
	Grant and Eric decide its coming from the right.

69L	EXT. JUNGLE - CONTUNUOUS DAY					69L

	Paul is picking the briars out of his socks as they hike,
	risking tripping on every step. Then Amanda stops short. She's
	the first to hear it:

	THE SAME RINGING.

	After a beat, everyone else can hear it too. And recongnition
	finally lights on Paul's face...

				PAUL
		My phone.

	Suddenly, Paul frantically searches his pockets as the others
	anxiously watch.

				AMANDA
		You had the phone the whole time?

				BILLY
		Where is it?

				PAUL
		I don't know. I don't have it with me.

				AMANDA
		When did you have it last?

				PAUL
		I don't remember

				AMANDA
		Think.

	And Paul wracks his memory...

				PAUL
		The plane. I got a call on the plane, put it in
		my coat pocket, and...

	Bust suddenly, he stops, his face is lighting with an awful
	realization. Amanda couldn’t bear the wait...

				AMANDA
		What?...WHAT!?

				PAUL
		I loaned it to Nash. He must have had it on
		him when he...

	The hideous implication of his words slowly sink in.


69M	EXT. JUNGLE - DAY							69M

	Still following the faint RINGING, Grant and Eric turn to find

	A SAIL

	moving through the low trees. We recognize it as the back of a
	spinosaurus. We might think it's any random spinosaurus,
	except for the RINGING coming from somewhere inside it.

	Grant and Eric press back against a tree, keep perfectly
	still as they hear the THOOOOMB, THOOOOMB, THOOOMB of the
	creature's footsteps reverberating. It's tail RUSTKES against
	the brush.

	It's moving behind them, and it's close.

	We hear the RINGING move from left to right as it passes. So
	far, its has no idea they're there.

	Looking across the clearing, Eric is startled to see

	PAUL AND AMANDA

	are no more than 20 yards away, also hiding. An involuntary
	reflex, Eric calls out...

				ERIC
		Mon! Dad!

	Grant immediately covers the boy’s mouth. But it's to late.
	The dinosaur has stopped. We still can't see it. We don't know how
	close it is.

	Paul and Amanda spot Eric with Grant. They're a thousand
	emotions at once: relieved, disbelieving, terrified, overjoyed.
	They want to run to him, to yell out to him, but the monster is
	close.

	Grant takes his hand off Eric's mouth. They both stay
	completely silent.

	All this time, the sat-phone is RINGING.

	Than it stops.

	And after an agonizing beat, the beast moves. At first we're
	not sure which direction it's headed, but finally we can tell
	its moving away.

	Once the sail is finally out of sight, Eric breaks from Grant's
	hold and dashes to his parents' arms. They coop him up. Hug
	him, kiss him, their affection unquenchable. He's crying.

				AMANDA
			(reassuring him)
		Sweetheart, you're okay.
			(reassuring herself)
		You're okay.
			(disbelieving)
		You're okay.

				PAUL
		Never had a doubt. Never did. Us Kirby men,
		we stick around, huh?

				ERIC
		We do.

	Looking at her grubby son, Amanda licks her shirttail, trying
	to rub his face clean.

				PAUL
		Honey, there's not enough spit in the world
		for that.

	She LAUGHS. It's the first times she's laughed in two months.

	Billy crosses the distance to Grant.

				GRANT
		We need to keep moving.

				BILLY
		Alan, I want to tell you that I'm so sorry
		about the...

				GRANT
		Billy, I can't talk to you now.

	He walks off. Billy follows him.

				BILLY
		Please, okay? Just yell at me. Call me an
		idiot. An asshole. Stupid. Tell me I screwed
		up because I know I did.

	Grant doesn't respond.

				BILLY (CONT'D)
		I thought if we could get a raptor back
		to the mainland, we could get serious money
		for it. Enough to fund the digging for 10
		years. More. Whatever it took.

	Grant shakes his head, disgusted, But doesn't stop.

				BILLY (CONT'D)
		You have to believe me. I did it with the
		best intentions.

				GRANT
			(finally turning on him)
		Some of the worst things imaginable have
		been done with the best intentions. You
		rushed in with no thought to the
		consequences, to yourself or anyone else.
			(finally)
		You're no better than the people who built
		this place.

	Grant keeps walking, leaving Billy with his guilt.


70	INT. CANYON BUILDING - DAY					70

	The group enters a structure with giant windows designed to
	look into the canyon beyond -- only there's nothing to see but a
	thick fog.

	Toward the center of the room, a spiral staircase that leads to
	a lower level.

	With Billy lagging, Grant approaches the stairs and peers down
	the circular opening in the floor. There is not much to see, just
	fog, a glint of sunlight.


71	EXT. RIVER CANYON - DAY						71

	Step by step, Grant leads the group down a rusty spiral
	staircase below the observation room. The stairs end in a lower
	level. Although we're technically outside, this whole place feel
	strangely enclosed.

	There's a thick fog at this level -- clouds, really -- but far
	below we can see the river. And at its banks, a barge.

				GRANT
		We climb down to the barge and follow the
		river out to the ocean. With any luck, the
		Costa Rican coast guard will pick us up.

				ERIC
		Then we go home?

				AMANDA
		Then we go home.

	Grant leads everyone down a RAMP to --


72	EXT. LANDING - DAY							72

	A catwalk branches off, a SET OF STAIRS continuing down the
	along the canyon wall.

	Grant starts down the stairs. He's only taken a few steps down
	the rusty staircase suddenly

	BREAKS BENEATH HIS FEET.

	Paul grabs him in the nick of time. The staircase vanish into
	the fog. CLANFING AGAINST the canyon wall. After a few more
	seconds of silence, they hear the CRASH far below.

				AMANDA
		You okay?

	Grant nods and looks in the other direction.

				GRANT
		How about if we try this way?

	Their only other option is a precarious catwalk that
	disappears into the mist.

				AMANDA
		Do you think it goes all the way across?

				GRANT
		One way to find out.

	The only way to get his-near-fall is to push ahead. But his
	stomach turns at being so high.

	Amanda follows. The catwalk creaks and groans, listing
	slightly. She freezes mid-stride.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
			(glancing back)
		We'd better do this one at a time.

	Amanda steps of and Grant carefully pushes forward,
	disappearing into the thick fog.

	The others listen to the CREAKING of the catwalk until it STOPS
	ABRIPTLY.

	SILENCE.

				PAUL
		Dr. Grant?

	More silence. Then, out of the fog, a distant voice call out --

				GRANT (O.S.)
		Come on over. One at a time.

	Amanda steps tentatively forwards. Eric is clinging to her.

				AMANDA
		Eric, its okay. You'll be right behind me.

				PAUL
		We're not going anywhere, I promise.

	As Paul holds Eric, and Amanda shares a look.

				Amanda
		We're all together now, Eric.

	Eric reluctantly releases her mother. Amanda starts to cross.


73	EXT. REVER CANYON - FAR WALL - DAY				73

	Grant has stopped at a lateral support across the
	catwalk, trying to get the sense of where they are and what
	purpose this place may have served.

	Seeing that the support beams are brace high arched walls of steal
	mesh, it becomes obvious that we are inside this vast
	construction.

	Amanda emerges from the mist and turns back to the catwalk.

				AMANDA
			(calling out)
		Okay! Come on, Eric!


74	EXT. LANDING - DAY							74

	Eric is next to go across. He's still tentative.

				PAUL
		How 'bout if I...

				ERIC
		No, I can do it.

	Billy and Paul look on as Eric disappears into the vapor.

				PAUL
			(muttering to himself)
		That's it Eric. Nice and easy...


75	EXT. CATWALK - DAY							75

	Eric slowly gropes his way forward. He feels a GUST OF WIND and
	a HEAVY THUD ahead on the catwalk which now sways beneath
	him.

	Regaining his balance, Eric peers forward, but the fog prevents
	him from seeing more than fifteen feet ahead. There is an EERIE
	SILENCE. Eric calls out timidly.

				ERIC
		Mom?


75A	EXT. RIVER CANYON - FAR WALL - DAY				75A

	Across the canyon, Grant moves across the later support. With
	his hand on the railing, he sends a white, hardened substance
	dropping into the mist.

	Looking up, Grant notices a large strut, covered with the same
	substance. Realizing what it could be.

				GRANT
		Oh, my God.

				AMANDA
		What is it?

				GRANT
		A bird cage.

	Then, the sound of Eric SCREAMING.


75B	EXT. CATWALK - DAY							75B

	Eric watches as A LOOMING SHAPE emerges from the fog -- a
	nightmarish vision stalking purposefully forward.

	A FULL GROWN PTERANODON,

	standing over seven feet high, walks upright on clawed feet, his
	thirty foot wings folded bat-like at his side.

	The creature sees Eric and fixes him with a demonic glare.

	Eric CRIES OUT and dashes back down the teetering catwalk.

	The Pteranodon ruses to its feet, spreads its thirty-foot wings
	and flies directly at him.

	AT THE OTHER END OF THE CATWALK

	Hearing Eric's SCREAMS, Paul charges onto the catwalk,
	searching in the fog.

				PAUL
		Eric!

				BILLY
		It won't hold!

	Suddenly,

	ERIC

	emerges from the fog, racing toward his father. And then
	
	THE PTERANODON

	swoops out of the fog, opens its giant rear claws, and snatches
	the terrified boy from the catwalk.

	Paul Kirby watches in stunned, abject horror as the Pteranodon
	carries Eric directly overhead --

				PAUL
		ERIC!

	The flying reptile struggles with the boy's weight. Paul
	watches helplessly as Eric is carried high across the canyon.

	Paul runs back alone the catwalk in a desperate attempt to keep
	Eric in sight.

	Billy stays behind, moving back up the platform to try to
	keep the dinosaur in view. With a new idea, he races back up the
	stairs to the observation room. He has a way to save Eric.

	When he reaches the canyon wall, Paul turns a corner and runs
	along another enclosed catwalk leading deeper into the canyon.

	Grant and Amanda now come pounding down the catwalk trying to
	catch up with Paul.

				AMANDA
			(shouting)
		Paul! Where is he? Can you see him?

				PAUL
			(shouting back)
		I'm trying! That thing took him down this
		way!

				GRANT
		Split up!

	THE PTERANODON

	carries Eric deeper into the canyon. The creature's wings beat
	steadily overhead, and the WIND is fierce. Eric looks down and
	sees the river far below.

	The Pteranodon swoops over an isolated outcropping of rocks at
	the end of the canyon and drops Eric into --


75C	EXT. PTERANODON NEST - DAY					75C

	A large bowl of mud and branches the size of a satellite dish.
	Eric lands right on top of a pile of dinosaur bones picked
	clean. Mixed among is one human skull.

	Before Eric has time to cry out, he looks up to find

	SIX PTERANODON HATCHLINGS

	closing in on him with sharp-edged beaks.

	He picks up the human skull and whips it to the hatchlings.
	They easily duck it and keep coming.

76	EXT. OBSERVATION ROOM - CONTINUOUS DAY			76

	Grant looks up to see Billy leaning out over the edge of the
	observation platform. He suddenly realizes what Billy is about
	to do.

				GRANT
		BILLY! WAIT!

	Billy SHOUTS BACK, an excited-terrified grin on his face.

				BILLY
		I CAN GET HIM!

				GRANT
		NO!

				BILLY
		I KNOW THE CONSEQUENCES!

	Billy jumps off the railing and

	DROPS TOWARDS THE CANYON BELOW.

	Grant, Paul and Amanda watch as Billy FALLS past them like a
	stone, plummeting towards certain death. But then --

	THE PARASAIL CHUTE

	blossoms above him.

	Not only does it slows Billy's descent, but he even manages to
	catch an updraft and begin to rise.

	He struggles to control the parasail, swooping dangerously
	close to the canyon wall, barely avoiding it.

	Up ahead he catches sight of Eric and steers towards him.


77-80	OMIT									77-80


81	EXT. PTERANODON NEST - DAY					81

	Eric struggles to keep away from the hatchlings. But there's
	no way out of this nest.

	Billy SWOOPS overhead, but he's too high to reach Eric.

				BILLY
		ERIC! HOLD ON!

	He circles around to make another attempt.


82	EXT. ENCLOSED CATWAY - DAY					82

	Paul rounds the corner and finally catches sight of Eric in the
	nest, some fifty feet below, fighting off the hatchlings.

				PAUL
		Hang on, Eric!

	Paul sees an outcropping he could jump onto from here. It's a
	big leap, though, he might not make it. He steels himself up for
	the jump, then chickens out.

	Grant and Amanda come up behind him. Suddenly,

	A SECOND PTERANODON

	CRASH LANDS on the catwalk enclosure about them -- right next
	to a gaping hole in the mesh. The catwalk GROANS with the
	extra weight.

	The pteranodon JAMS its head through the hole, SNAPPING at
	them.


83	EXT. CANYON - IN THE AIR - DAY					83

	Billy circles, making his approach.

	In the nest, Eric kicks at the hatchlings, but they're
	undeterred. Billy and Eric will only have one chance.

	As Billy swoops past, Eric jumps and grabs onto his boot. He is
	yanked up and out of the nest. But than, MOTHER PTERANODON
	shoots past, tearing out a piece of the parasail in its beak.


84-85	OMIT									84-85


86	EXT. OVER THE RIVER - DAY					86

	The pteranodon who landed on the top of the catwalk continues to
	SNAP through the hole in the enclosure.

	Finally the reptile's massive weight proves to much, and the
	entire section of the catwalk BREAKS FREE of the canyon wall
	and FLIPS OVER LATERALLY.

	Amanda, Grant and Paul are able to hang on, but so is the
	pteranodon, who now climbs their way.


87	OMIT									87


88	EXT. OVER THE RIVER - DAY					88

	His parasail badly damaged, Billy tries to keep aloft. Heading
	as low as he dares, he yells to Eric --

				BILLY
		Let go!

	Terrified, Eric falls into the river safely. He surfaces,
	immediately swimming to shore.

	Trying to gain altitude, Billy bends hard to the right. But the
	rigging is too badly damaged. He flies right into the canyon
	wall, hitting hard.

	Instead of tumbling down to the river, he finds himself
	swinging from his harness - the parasail snagged on a rock
	spire above him.


89	EXT. BROKEN CATWALK - DAY					89

	Paul, Grant and Amanda struggle to stay away from the
	pteranodon as it moves towards them.

	Suddenly. the far end of this inverted section of catwalk
	detaches from the canyon wall and

	SWINGS DOWNWARD.

	The force of the action sends the three tumbling directly
	towards the pteranodon.

	Miraculously, they manage to avoid its open beak. But they
	are all sent plummeting toward the river below.


90	EXT. RIVER - DAY							90

	They hit the water hard, resurfacing moments later. The
	current is carrying them downstream.


91	EXT. CANYON WALL - DAY						91

	The two pteranodons who were pursuing Billy now land on nearby
	ledges and consider how best to dispatch their prey.

	Billy frantically tries to unhook his harness, but the tension
	is so tight from his own weight that he can't loosen the
	buckles.


92-93	OMIT							  92-93


94	EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY					      94

	Paul and Amanda emerge from the water by the canyon wall and
	find their son hiding behind a rock, searching the skies for
	Billy.

	Amanda takes Eric tightly in her arms, and Paul urges them to
	keep moving. Up ahead, the mesh of the aviary meets the river.

	Wading the shore, Grant now scans the canyon, searching for
	Billy. It doesn't take long to spot him.

95	EXT. CANYON WALLL - DAY						95

	Billy continues to struggle with the harness but to no avail.

	The doomed young man is suspended high up on the canyon wall
	like a modern Prometheus, an entire FLOCK of pteranodons
	gathering around him preparing to peck away his liver. And
	everything else.

	A MAMMOTH PTERANADON has landed beside him and looks him
	straight in the eye.

	The gigantic creature lunges at him. Billy dodges away as best
	he can. The pteranodon's frustrated bite severs a crucial
	juncture on Billy's harness, and Billy is able to wriggle free.


96	EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY						96

	Eric, Amanda, Paul and Grant watch in amazement as Billy is the
	last to PLUNGE DOWN into the river.

				GRANT
		He made it!

	Billy bobs to the surface and spots the group downstream. He
	waves and begins to swim towards them. Soon he nears the shore
	and gets to his feet, wading as he comes.

	Grant, Paul, Amanda and Eric hurry to meet him.

	Grant is overjoyed to see him alive. But his smile quickly
	fades as he sees

	THE ENTIRE FLOCK OF PTERANODONS

	diving down from above in angry pursuit of their lost prey.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Billy, look out!

	Billy glances behind him. He races forward, motioning fro his
	companions to turn around.

				BILLY
		Get back! Get back!

	Just then Billy is knocked down by the lead pteranodon. It
	strikes from behind with a brutal, calculated beak to the head.
	Billy stumbles and falls to the ground.

	Grant rushes forward with Paul right after him. Amanda takes
	Eric to safety down river.

	Billy SCREAMS as the ENTIRE FLOCK of pteranodons now swarms
	around him, picking him apart with their beaks and claws.

				GRANT
		Billy!

				PAUL
		It's no use, Dr. Grant. No use.

	Grant can't take his eyes off Billy, whose BLOOD stains the
	water rushing by.

	And now several pteranodons are heading their way. Difficult
	as it is to leave Billy behind, Grant and Paul make a run for it.

	Just as the pteranodons are about to swoop in for the kill, Alan
	and Paul dive back into the river...


97	EXT. THE RIVER - CONTINUOUS DAY				97

	...and resurfaces on the far side of the mesh aviary wall, GASPING
	for air. Just behind them, the mammoth

	PTERANODON

	CRASHES into the mesh. It tears at the steel, actually ripping
	it in one place.

	At the dock up ahead, Amanda and Eric have found a rusty,
	waterlogged barge that's somehow still floating. Carrying a
	tarp-covered cage, the boat was meant for transporting dinos
	up and down the river.

	Amanda pushes them away from the dock as Alan and Paul climb
	on board.


98	EXT. ON THE BARGE - CONTINUOUS DAY				98

	The current takes the craft downstream, letting us get our
	first good look at the incredible
	
	AVIARY.

	It's a vast, domed mesh structure that spans the entire canyon.
	In all, a feat of remarkable engineering and unmistakable
	hubris.

	Catching their breath, our four survivors look at the cage they
	were caught in.


99	EXT. DOWN RIVER - DAY / LATER					99

	Yanking the starter rope one final time, Paul finally gets the
	engine to turn over, PUTTERING along. Amanda is beside him,
	bailing water.

				PAUL
		My own kid was right in front of me and I
		didn't do a damn thing.

				AMANDA
		You couldn't have made that jump.

				PAUL
		I should have tried. It should have been me
		on that beach back there, not Billy.

				AMANDA
		How would you have helped Eric?
			(he can't answer)
		He needs you, Paul. He needs us.

				PAUL
		He could have died.

				AMANDA
		But he didn't. And neither did you. And I'm
		glad about that.


99A	UP ON THE BOW							99A

	Grant is beside Eric, keeping watch, but also feeling the weight
	of Billy's death.

				ERIC
		Do you have any kids?

				GRANT
		No. Although I've studied them in the wild.

	Eric looks over, not sure what that means.

				GRANT (CON'T)
		I have a theory that there's two kinds of
		boys. Those who want to be astronomers and
		those who want to be astronauts.

				ERIC
		I want to be an astronaut.

				GRANT
		See, I was the opposite. I never understood
		why anyone would want to go into space. It's
		so dangerous. You do one thing wrong and
		you're dead. The astronomer -- or the
		paleontologist -- get to study these amazing
		things from a place of complete safety. And
		truthfully, everything you really need to
		learn, you can learn it from the ground.

				ERIC
		But then you never get to go in space.

				GRANT
		Exactly. The difference between imagining
		how things might be and seeing how they
		really are. To be able to touch them. That's
		what Billy wanted to do.

	The barge starts to round a bend. On the bow, Grant and Eric
	are the fist to see something remarkable. Eric GASPS,
	unprepared. We don't know yet what they see.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		I can blame the people who made this island.
		But I can't blame the people who want to see
		it. To study it.

	At the rear of the barge, Paul just now sees what's ahead. Awe-
	struck, he slows the motor and motions for Amanda to take a
	look. And so do we.

	UP AHEAD

	The setting sun illuminates an incredible valley filled with
	dinosaurs. We see armored ANKYLOSAURS with clubbed
	tails. Duck-billed CORYTHOSAURS. We float under the gigantic,
	arching necks of eighty-foot BRACHIOSAURS.

	With the mist from the river and the play of light, we're
	witnessing a kind of primal Eden.

				GRANT (cont'd)
		How's a boy suppose to resist this?


100	EXT. FURTHER DOWNSTREAM - NIGHT				100

	A FULL MOON passes behind clouds. THUNDER quietly rumbles, and
	LIGHTNING flickers in the distance.

	Paul is still at the wheel. The river is narrower here, and
	cautions must be taken to avoid the banks.

	As the barge begins to round another bend. a FAMILIAR HIGH-
	PITCHED SOUND pierces the darkness. Muffled but unmistakable,
	it is the RINGING SAT-PHONE.

	All exchange looks of sheer PANIC, expecting Spinosaurus to
	leap out at any moment. Grant scans the river banks.

				GRANT
		Keep quiet.

	Paul cuts the motor, and time seems to stop as the four stand
	posed for action.

	The barge finishes rounding the curve, and the ringing grows
	LOUDER. The suspense is excruciating until finally...

	Their eyes widen at some horrifying sight, more horrifying
	than anything they've yet seen.

	SEVEN MOUNDS OF DINOSAUR DUNG sit on the patch off treeless flat
	ground just beyond the river bank.

	As our friends consider the sight, an idea comes to them all of them
	almost simultaneously.

	With Eric still in the boat, Amanda, Paul, and Alan jump into
	the river and rush to the bank.


101	EXT. RIVER BANK - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT				101

	The three companions sprint towards the source of the RINGING.

				GRANT
		Find it before it stops ringing!

	And bracing themselves and hocking their breath, they PLUNGE
	their arms into their respective dung-heaps. After a few
	moments of this disgusting search...

				PAUL
		I've got something. I think I've got
		something!

	All turn to Paul. Clearing away the clinging defecation, he
	holds up to a beeper. And still the phone RINGS.

	Returning to their bleak task, they shovel the excrement with
	their arms. Finally:

				AMANDA
		I've got it! I've got it!

	Grant snatches the RINGING SAT-PHONE from Amanda's hands,
	presses a button, and puts it to his ear.

				RECORDED VOICE (ON PHONE)
		You too can own a time share in beautiful
		Guadalajara. Enjoy a meal in one of our four
		star restaurants, explore our coral reefs, or
		just walk on the beach...

	The Kirby’s hear the recorded voice and let out a collective,
	heavy sigh. Grant shuts off the phone.

	In all the excitement, none of them notice a fierce horned
	CARNOTAUR right behind them. The giant creature ROARS, ready
	to eat them.

	But as it gets in close, it smells them. Even a dinosaur won't
	eat something that is covered in shit. After a beat, the
	Carnotaur turns and walks away, back into the jungle.

				PAUL
		Can't help but be a little offended.


102	EXT. BACK ON THE BARGE - NIGHT					102

	CLOSE ON the cleaned satellite phone's display. The battery
	level indicator is FLASHING.

				PAUL
		Whatever you do, don't call the U.S. Embassy.
		They won't do a God Damn thing.

				GRANT
		Well, we don't exactly have a Costa Rican
		phone book here, so it will have to be
		somebody we know in the states. Someone we
		can absolutely count on to send help.

				PAUL
			(to Amanda)
		Stan.

				AMANDA
		I wouldn't trust Stan with a snowball in a
		blizzard.

	Paul glares at her. Now Eric notices something odd in the
	river.

				ERIC
		What's that?

	The others look down in the murky water. Just below the
	surface,

	A SHIMMERING WAVE OF SILVER

	passes beneath the boat.

	Then a SINGLE FISH jumps from the water. And another. And
	another.

				GRANT
		Bonitas.

				ERIC
		Something must've scared them.

	Another roll of THUNDER, this time much closer.

				GRANT
		Get the motor going.

	Paul moves the motor and pulls the start cord. The engine
	sputters but won't come to life.

	And now the phone BEEPS. The battery is getting even weaker.

	Grant makes a quick decision and DIALS.

				AMANDA
		Who are you calling?

	But Grant ignores the question. RING. RING.

				GRANT
		Pick up! Pick up!


103	INT. ELLIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT				103

	Wearing his jammies, three-year old Charlie awkwardly picks up
	the phone with both hands. He has the mouthpiece next to his
	lips, but the earpiece is hanging out in space.

				CHARLIE
		Hewwo?

	INTERCUT

	Recognizing who it must be...

				GRANT
		Charlie? Charlie. Get your mother. Right
		away!

	A long silence. Charlie bites his lip, looks around.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Charlie? Are you there?

				CHARLIE
		Hewwo?

	The sat-phone BEEPS again, this time much LOUDER.

	Amanda and Eric watch Grant, realizing their fate may hang on
	this single call. Paul struggles without success to start the
	motor.

	Then, unseen by the group, a

	GIGANTIC FIN

	rises from the water just fifty yards from the barge. It's
	headed right to them and closing fast.

				GRANT
			(desperate)
		Charlie! It's the dinosaur man! Go get
		mommy, okay?

				CHARLIE
		Okay.

	Not sure what to do with the phone, Charlie makes a logical
	choice and hangs it back up.

	He walks away to his mom.


104	EXT. BARGE - NIGHT [END INTERCUTTING]			104

	Grant realizes he's been cut off. He's about to redial when

	WHAM!

	The barge is RAMMED, sending everyone tumbling. Grant manages
	to stay on top of the wheelhouse, but he loses grip on the
	phone, which falls on deck.

	SPINOSAURUS

	rises from the water, towering over the barge. As lightning
	FLASHES and thunder CRACKS, the dinosaur lets out an ear-
	splitting ROAR.

	It lunges at Grant with gaping jaws. Grant leaps out of
	the way just in time as the dinosaur

	RIPS OFF

	the entire wheelhouse.

							            CUT TO:


105	INT. ELLIE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT				105

	Charlie leads Ellie into the room. Hands her the phone. Of
	course, it's just a DIAL TONE.

				ELLIE
		Was somebody on the phone?

				CHARLIE
		Dinosaur man.

	Ellie looks at him with confusion, then quickly checks the
	Caller ID box besides the phone. It's international, and not a
	number she recognizes.

							          BACK TO:


106	EXT. THE BARGE - NIGHT						106

	Grant stays one step ahead of the Spinosaurus as the beast rips
	apart the quickly-sinking boat.

	It spits out the wheelhouse and bites down on the stern of the
	boat, ripping off a chunk.

	Grant is heading up to the other three when he hears the sat-
	phone RING.  He spots it, just about to fall into the water.
	Dives for it, answering...

				GRANT
		ELLIE!


106A	INT. ELLIES LIVING ROOM - NIGHT					106A

				ELLIE
		Alan?

	She can hear the Spinosaurus ROAR.

				ELLIE (CONT'D)
		Alan? Alan!

	But he's cut off by a SECOND ROAR, the sound of someone
	SCREAMING.

	And then the line goes dead.

	Ellie pales. Charlie looks at her with a smile.

				CHARLIE
			(imitating)
		Raaaar!


106B	EXT. BACK ON THE BARGE - NIGHT					106B

	Dropping the dead phone, Grant scrambles towards the front of
	the boat and joins Paul, Amanda and Eric, who have taken refuge
	in the dinosaur cage.

	The fearsome beast now lifts the stern of the boat clear out of
	the water.

	The cage SCRAPES across the deck and SLAMS into the gunwale,
	toppling off the barge and

	INTO THE RIVER.

	Grant and the Kirby’s are still inside.


107	EXT. THE RIVER - UNDERWATER - NIGHT				107

	The cage sinks. The closest to the door, Paul manages to get out.

	The other three aren't as lucky. The cage rotates as it descends
	and lands on the river bottom with the door side down, trapping
	them inside.

	In the cold murky depths, they pull frantically on the bars.
	Debris and equipment float around them.

	Paul surfaces out of the breath and disoriented. Spinosaurus
	pushes past the boat. If anyone is going to save his family, it
	has to be him.

	And so he dives.

	Pushing with all his might, he manages to tip the heavy
	structure, just enough so Amanda, Eric and Grant can get out.
	Paul himself isn't so lucky.

	Spinosaurus grabs the cage and Paul, throwing both straight up
	out of the water. Paul flies twenty feet away, further from the
	shore.

				AMANDA
		PAUL!

				ERIC
		DAD!

	Spinosaurus is going after the heroic Mr. Kirby, who dives,
	swimming underwater. He's trying to lead it away from his
	family.

				GRANT
			(looking around)
		Up! Up!

	He points to a heavy crane assembly, designed for lifting cages
	off the large boats. Now well accustomed to fleeing on
	command, Amanda sends Eric up first, climbing the scaffolding
	like a jungle gym.

	All the while, they're trying to spot Paul.

	Grant is the last to climb, reaching the first section as
	Spinosaurus returns from the water, SLAMMING into the base of
	the crane. The whole assembly SHUDDERS, threatening to rip into
	the water.

				ERIC
		Where's Dad?

				AMANDA
		Just hold on.

	Try as it might, the beast can't climb the crane. So instead it
	RAMS it, SHAKES it, trying to knock them off. Eric slips, but
	Amanda catches him.

	About to shed his bag to climb higher, Grant finds one last
	hope. It's the resonation chamber model. A beat before he
	decides: It may not be the best choice, but it's the only choice.

	He blows through it, the same EERIE PITCH we heard before. On
	the third try, he's able to approximate the "egg" cry he heard
	the raptors give. He keeps it up, repeating over and over.

	Spinosaurus stops for a beat, confused How this sound could be
	coming from a non-raptor. But then keeps SMASHING.

	We can hear the mounting bolts STRAIN. Soon the whole crane
	will tip.

	But not before a MATCHING CRY is heard in the jungle. Grant
	stops, not certain he heard it. But there it is AGAIN.

	He keeps blowing.

	The crane is close to tipping when a single RAPTOR appears
	from the darkness, CHIRP-BARKING at the Spinosaur, who simply
	bats away.

	But then MORE RAPTORS come. And even MORE. Soon there are
	dozens gathering, circling.

	Grant stops signaling. All three survivors watch with
	horrified fascination, knowing their fate is perilous no matter
	which side wins.

	Looking at his adversaries, Spinosaurus ROARS. And suddenly
	the raptors attack.

	Spinosaurus easily handles the first few, but like ants they
	just keep coming. They climb up his back, slicing, into him with
	their razor-sharp claws.

				GRANT
		Jump! Swim for the far shore!

	All three drop from the crane arm into the water.

	Meanwhile, the fight continues. Spinosaurus rallies, shaking
	off many of the raptors, but they just keep coming. Their
	hooked claws dig in, scraping the meat to the bone.

	Spinosaurus puts up a brave fight to the end, but finally
	collapses, dead. The raptors continue to shred it to ribbons.
	Then one of the raptors looks over to see the survivors
	swimming away.

	But a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. It goes back to
	its meal.


107A	EXT. FAR SHORE - NIGHT						107A

	Grant is trying to move them along. still headed downstream.
	But Eric won't budge another foot.

				ERIC
		We have to keep looking for Dad. We have to.

				AMANDA
		I know. I know. I want to look for him too.

				ERIC
		then we should...

	She kneels down, facing him. She's just as upset as he is, but
	motherhood carries the burden of remaining calm.

				AMANDA
		Let me tell you a few things about you Dad,
		okay? He's very very very clever, very very brave,
		and he loves you ever very much.

				ERIC
		He loves you too.

				AMANDA
		Okay. He loves us very very much. And I know
		that right now more than anything, your Dad
		would want to know that we're safe. Okay?

	Eric nods.

				AMANDA (CONT'D)
		We're going to get out of this, and
		everything's going to be all right, I promise.

				A VOICE
		Listen to your mother.

	Out of the darkness steps Paul Kirby. Amanda is knocked over
	with surprise. Eric runs to him, nearly tackling him.

				PAUL
		Good thing I've been swimming, huh?

	Amanda hugs him and Eric so tightly they can't breath.


									CROSSFADE TO:


108-109	OMIT								108-109


110	EXT. BEACH - DAY							110

	The foursome sit back on the wide beach, one facing
	each direction, keeping watch. A light rain is falling, but they
	don't seem to notice.

	Trying to keep his boy's spirit up...

				PAUL
		You remember when we went fishing last
		summer? And I was trying to put the boat in
		and the trailer sank? And then the tow truck
		came and tried to pull it out, but it got
		dragged in? And the truck driver threatened
		to knock your Dad's lights out? So I said I
		was the governor and he believed me?

	Eric really smiles, remembering the day.

				ERIC
		Yeah.

	Amanda is smiling too. She had completely forgotten the
	incident.

				PAUL
		That was a fun day.

	To Paul, after some consideration....

				AMANDA
		We should try fishing again.

				PAUL
		You mean it?

				AMANDA
		I do. It's worth another shot. And who knows?
		Things might turn out differently.

	Her hand takes his, gently brushing off the wet sand, fingertips
	touching. It's a small thing, but it's a start.

	Sensing his cue to leave, Grant gets up and starts walking down
	the beach. Eric hurries to follow him. He speaks
	conspiratorially, not wanting to alarm his parents.

				ERIC
		The lady you called, how do you know she can
		help us?

				GRANT
		She's the one person I could always count on.
		And she's saved me more times than she
		realizes. I owe her everything.

	A long beat as they walk.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		It's strikes me now I never told her that.

				ERIC
		You should.

				GRANT
		You're right.

	As they keep walking, Grant notices something rammed against
	the rocks ahead. It's a speedboat, its hull ripped open from the
	impact.

	And it's not just any boat either -- it's the same Dino-Soar
	boat that was pulling the parasail. Eric hasn’t seen it yet, so
	Grant stops him.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		Eric, do you know what happened to the boat?
		that brought you here? Why did it crash?

				ERIC
		No. I couldn't see.

				GRANT
		Do me a favor. Go back to your parents for a
		minute, would you?
			(pre-empting objections)
		They look worried.

	Eric nods and heads back to Paul and Amanda. Grant forges on,
	approaching the speedboat wreckage. He doesn't know what he'll
	find, but he needs to look.

	Almost reaching his parents, Eric stops. Looks out over the
	ocean, where he sees

	TWO LIGHTS.

	He doesn't say anything for a moment, trying to make sure
	they're real. They are. And they're coming closer.

				ERIC
			(excited)
		Mom! Dad!

	They look up to see the distant lights, just now making out
	full forms...

				PAUL
		Helicopters. Helicopters!

	He SHOUTS with joy. Paul, Amanda and Eric wave their arms,
	making as much motion as possible. The helicopters -- big
	military choppers -- change direction, heading straight for
	them.

	Paul and Amanda embrace, then kiss, the moment getting the best
	of them

	AT THE SPEEDBOAT

	Grant looks in, prepared to see anything in the wreckage. But
	the cabin is surprisingly intact, just a little blood. There are
	three gashes on the driver's seat back. Grant measures their
	spacing with his fingers.

				ERIC
			(yelling over)
		Dr. Grant! Helicopters are coming!

	Grant looks down to the wet sand around him, finding a trail of
	three-toed tracks.

				ERIC (CONT'D)
		We're safe!

				GRANT
			(to himself)
		No we're not.

	THE FIRST CHOPPER.

	flies right overhead. Paul and Amanda are confused, until the
	second helicopter starts to land -- the first on is there to 
	cover them.

	Grant YELLS at the first chopper, trying to wave it away. But
	the noise of the blades is DEAFENDING.

				GRANT (CONT'D)
		NO! STAY BACK! THEY'RE IN THE TREES!

	At the treeline, the upper branches are shaking. At first, it
	looks like it's just the wind off the chopper, but
	something more is happening.
	
	A PTERANODON

	flies up out of the trees, the first of twenty. It's a gorgeous
	and terrifying sight.


110A	INT. FIRST CHOPPER - DAWN					110A

	Terrified, the Costa Rican CHOPPER PILOT veers away, but the
	pteranodons are already on him. They SMASH at the windows,
	grabbing on the skids, The chopper rolls wildly.

	One over-eager pteranodon sticks his head up to high, getting
	decapitated by the blade.


110B	EXT. BEACH - DAWN							110B

	As the second chopper touches down on the beach, Eric, Amanda
	and Paul load in. Grant is running their way.


110C	EXT. BY THE TREES - DAWN						110C

	Meanwhile, the first copper is losing the battle even as it
	climbs higher. The helicopter suddenly tips, falling, SMASHING
	into the trees with a massive fireball.


110D	INT. SECOND CHOPPER - DAWN					110D

	Seeing the explosion, the SECOND CHOPPER PILOT takes off. Eric,
	Amanda and Paul are on board, but Grant is still running up.
	The helicopter passes right over him.

				AMANDA
			(to the pilot)
		You have to go back! We can't leave him!

	Seeing a ladder release by the door, Paul throws the lever. A cord-
	and-steel-ladder unfurls, dragging across the sand.


110E	EXT. THE BEACH - DAWN					   110E

	Grant chases after us, catching a rung just as it goes over the
	water. Behind him, pteranodons are circling the wreckage of
	the first chopper and starting to go after the second.

	Buffeted by the wind, Grant climbs the ladder up towards the
	chopper. A pteranodon flies up right behind him, trying to
	bite. It catches Grant's shoulder.

	Grant spins to the far side of the ladder. The pteranodon goes
	to bite him again, but finds it head caught between the rungs.
	As it tries to free itself, it just gets more entangled.

	The entire ladder starts to lift, caught by the updraft from the
	creature’s wings.


110F	INT. SECOND CHOPPER - DAWN					110F

	Up with the pilot, Amanda sees the other pteranodons are headed
	back to the island, unable to keep up.

				AMANDA
		They're not following.

	In back, Paul and Eric get the ladder mechanism to begin to
	retract. It reels Grant in faster. It also reels in the
	pteranodon, which may be caught, but is still plenty dangerous.

	As Grant reaches the cabin, they shut off the ladder engine.
	The pteranodon is still working its way free, pulling itself closer
	and closer.

				GRANT
			(shouting over the noise)
		We have to cut it! Find something sharp!

	Everyone checking the cabin for a knife, anything sharp.

	Finally, Eric hands Grant the raptor claw.

	Grant uses it to rip the line. The fibers break and fray, but
	the pteranodon keeps coming closer.

	Paul throws a wrench at the pteranodon, WHACKING it straight
	in the head. It felt good, and damn if it didn't slow it down a
	little.

	Grant has cut through the cord. He started on the second when
	the pteranodon SNAPS at him, going for his hand. There's
	nowhere for Grant to cut without the pteranodon getting him.

	And idea, Grant very deliberately places in his hand on the line,
	pulling away at the last moment. The pteranodon itself bites
	through the line.


110G	EXT. OCEAN - DAWN							110G

	The pteranodon falls away from the helicopter, catching wind
	just before it hits the water.

	It circles and flies back to Isla Sorna.

	As horrifying as the creature was a moment ago, it's suddenly
	beautiful again. Each motion of its giant wings is a small
	symphony.


110H	INT. COPPER / FLYING - DAWN					110H

	Sitting between his parents, Eric looks back at the island in
	the distance.

				ERIC
		What do you think is going to happen with the
		dinosaurs?

				GRANT
		The population will Stabilize eventually.
		They'll adapt to fit different roles.

	ON PAUL AND AMANDA

				PAUL
		Either that, or the government will firebomb
		it back to the Stone Age.

				AMANDA
		I would completely support that.

	ON ERIC AND GRANT

	looking back at the island.

				ERIC
		I hope they don't. I want to come back
		someday.

	And Dr. Grant realizes...

				GRANT
		So do I.

EXT. OCEAN – DAWN
The helicopter flies away across the ocean, leaving the island behind.

				   THE END